TREATY, INCOME, India and Singapore, IN-FORCE (1994) --Latest Amended
Version

TREATY TYPE: INCOME

STATUS: IN-FORCE

SIGNING DATES: JAN 24, 1994 (Agreement); JUN 29, 2005 (Protocol #1); JUN
24, 2011 (Protocol #2); DEC 30, 2016 (Protocol #3)

ENTRY INTO FORCE DATES: MAY 27, 1994 (Agreement); AUG 01, 2005 (Protocol
#1); SEP 01, 2011 (Protocol #2); FEB 27, 2017 (Protocol #3)

EFFECTIVE DATES: See Article 30 of the Agreement. See Articles 6 and 7
of Protocol #1. See Article 3 of the Protocol #2. See Article 6 of
Protocol #3.

SCOPE: BILATERAL

MULTILATERAL INSTRUMENT (MLI): Both signatories to this agreement have
signed and deposited their instrument of ratification for the MLI and
this agreement has been designated by both as a covered agreement. Each
signatorys reservations and notifications may be viewed using this
tool:

A synthesized version of the text of this agreement incorporating
changes made by the MLI is available:

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE AND THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA FOR THE AVOIDANCE OF DOUBLE TAXATION
AND THE PREVENTION OF FISCAL EVASION WITH RESPECT TO TAXES ON INCOME

The Government of the Republic of Singapore and the Government of the
Republic of India, Desiring to conclude an Agreement for the avoidance
of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to
taxes on income, Have agreed as follows:

ARTICLE 1 Personal Scope

This Agreement shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both
of the Contracting States.

ARTICLE 2 Taxes Covered

The taxes to which this Agreement shall apply are:

in India: income-tax including any surcharge thereon (hereinafter
referred to as "Indian tax");

(b) in Singapore: the income tax (hereinafter referred to as "Singapore
tax").

(2) The Agreement shall also apply to any identical or substantially
similar taxes which are imposed by either Contracting State after the
date of signature of the present Agreement in addition to, or in place
of, the taxes referred to in paragraph 1. The competent authorities of
the Contracting States shall notify each other of any substantial
changes which are made in their respective taxation laws.

ARTICLE 3 General Definitions

In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:

the term "India" means the territory of India and includes the
territorial sea and airspace above it, as well as any other maritime
zone in which India has sovereign rights, other rights and
jurisdictions, according to the Indian law and in accordance with
international law;

(b) the term "Singapore" means the Republic of Singapore;

(c) the terms "a Contracting State" and "the other Contracting State"
mean India or Singapore as the context requires;

(d) the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity which is
treated as a company or body corporate under the taxation laws in force
in the respective Contracting States;

(e) the term "competent authority" means, in the case of India, the
Central Government in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) or
their authorised representative; and in the case of Singapore, the
Minister for Finance or his authorised representative;

(f) the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the
other Contracting State" mean respectively an enterprise carried on by a
resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a
resident of the other Contracting State;

(g) the term "fiscal year" means:

in the case of India, "previous year" as defined under section 3 of the
Income-tax Act, 1961;

(ii) in the case of Singapore, calendar year;

(h) the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or
aircraft operated by an enterprise of a Contracting State, except when
the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other
Contracting State;

the term "national" means any individual, possessing the nationality of
a Contracting State and any legal person, partnership or association
deriving its status as such from the laws in force in the Contracting
State;

(j) the term "person" includes an individual, a company, a body of
persons and any other entity which is treated as a taxable unit under
the taxation laws in force in the respective Contracting States;

(k) the term "tax" means Indian tax or Singapore tax, as the context
requires, but shall not include any amount which is payable in respect
of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this
Agreement applies or which represents a penalty imposed relating to
those taxes.

(2) As regards the application of the Agreement by a Contracting State,
any term not defined therein shall, unless the context otherwise
requires, have the meaning which it has under the law of that State
concerning the taxes to which the Agreement applies.

ARTICLE 4 Resident

For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "resident of a Contracting
State" means any person who is a resident of a Contracting State in
accordance with the taxation laws of that State.

(2) Where, by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1, an individual is
a resident of both Contracting States, then his status shall be
determined as follows:

he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which he has a
permanent home available to him; if he has a permanent home available to
him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State
with which his personal and economic relations are closer (centre of
vital interests);

(b) if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be
determined, or if he has not a permanent home available to him in either
State, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which he has
an habitual abode;

(c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he
shall be deemed to be a resident of the State of which he is a national;

(d) if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the
competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the
question by mutual agreement.

(3) Where, by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1, a person other
than an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then it
shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which its place of
effective management is situated.

ARTICLE 5 Permanent Establishment

For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "permanent establishment"
means a fixed place of business through which the business of the
enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.

(2) The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:

a place of management;

(b) a branch;

(c) an office;

(d) a factory;

(e) a workshop;

(f) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of
extraction of natural resources;

(g) a warehouse in relation to a person providing storage facilities for
others;

(h) a farm, plantation or other place where agriculture, forestry,
plantation or related activities are carried on;

premises used as a sales outlet or for soliciting and receiving orders;

(j) an installation or structure used for the exploration or
exploitation of natural resources but only if so used for a period of
more than 120 days in any fiscal year.

(3) A building site or construction, installation or assembly project
constitutes a permanent establishment only if it continues for a period
of more than 183 days in any fiscal year.

(4) An enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a
Contracting State and to carry on business through that permanent
establishment if it carries on supervisory activities in that
Contracting State for a period of more than 183 days in any fiscal year
in connection with a building site or construction, installation or
assembly project which is being undertaken in that Contracting State.

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 and 4, an enterprise
shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State
and to carry on business through that permanent establishment if it
provides services or facilities in that Contracting State for a period
of more than 183 days in any fiscal year in connection with the
exploration, exploitation or extraction of mineral oils in that
Contracting State.

(6) An enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a
Contracting State if it furnishes service, other than services referred
to in paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article and technical services as
defined in Article 12, within a Contracting State through employees or
other personnel, but only if:

activities of that nature continue within that Contracting State for a
period or periods aggregating more than 90 days in any fiscal year; or

(b) activities are performed for a related enterprise (within the
meaning of Article 9 of this Agreement) for a period or periods
aggregating more than 30 days in any fiscal year.

(7) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term
"permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to include:

the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage, display or
occasional delivery of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise;

(b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise solely for the purpose of storage, display or occasional
delivery;

(c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by another enterprise;

(d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose
of purchasing goods or merchandise, or of collecting information, for
the enterprise;

(e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose
of advertising, for the supply of information, for scientific research,
or for similar activities which have a preparatory or auxiliary
character, for the enterprise.

However, the provisions of subparagraphs (a) to (e) shall not be
applicable where the enterprise maintains any other fixed place of
business in the other Contracting State through which the business of
the enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.

(8) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a
personother than an agent of an independent status to whom paragraph 9
appliesis acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of
the other Contracting State that enterprise shall be deemed to have a
permanent establishment in the first-mentioned State, if:

he has and habitually exercises in that State an authority to conclude
contracts on behalf of the enterprise, unless his activities are limited
to the purchase of goods or merchandise for the enterprise;

(b) he has no such authority, but habitually maintains in the
first-mentioned State a stock of goods or merchandise from which he
regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise; or

(c) he habitually secures orders in the first-mentioned State, wholly or
almost wholly for the enterprise itself or for the enterprise and other
enterprises controlling, controlled by, or subject to the same common
control, as that enterprise.

(9) An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to have a
permanent establishment in the other Contracting State merely because it
carries on business in that other State through a broker, general
commission agent or any other agent of an independent status provided
that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business.
However, when the activities of such an agent are devoted wholly or
almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise itself or on behalf of that
enterprise and other enterprises controlling, controlled by, or subject
to the same common control, as that enterprise, he will not be
considered an agent of an independent status within the meaning of this
paragraph.

(10) The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State
controls or is controlled by a company which is a resident of the other
Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other
Contracting State (whether through a permanent establishment or
otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent
establishment of the other.

ARTICLE 6 Income From Immovable Property

Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable
property situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that
other State.

(2) The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has
under the law of the Contracting State in which the property in question
is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to
immovable property, livestock and equipment used in agriculture and
forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting
landed property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to
variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working of, or the
right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources.
Ships and aircraft shall not be regarded as immovable property.

(3) The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to income derived
from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of immovable
property.

(4) The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income
from immovable property of an enterprise and to income from immovable
property used for the performance of independent personal services.

ARTICLE 7 Business Profits

The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable
only in that State unless the enterprise carries on business in the
other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated
therein. If the enterprise carries on business as aforesaid, the profits
of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of
them as is directly or indirectly attributable to that permanent
establishment.

(2) Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a
Contracting State carries on business in the other Contracting State
through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each
Contracting State be attributed to that permanent establishment the
profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and
separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the
same or similar conditions and dealing wholly independently with the
enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment. In any case where
the correct amount of profits attributable to a permanent establishment
is incapable of determination or the determination thereof presents
exceptional difficulties, the profits attributable to the permanent
establishment may be estimated on a reasonable basis.

(3) In the determination of the profits of a permanent establishment,
there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are incurred for the
purposes of the business of the permanent establishment including
executive and general administrative expenses so incurred, whether in
the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere,
in accordance with the provisions of and subject to the limitations of
the taxation laws of that State.

(4) Insofar as it has been customary in the Contracting State to
determine the profits to be attributed to a permanent establishment on
the basis of an apportionment of the total profits of the enterprise to
its various parts, nothing in paragraph 2 shall preclude that
Contracting State from determining the profits to be taxed by such an
apportionment as may be customary; the method of apportionment adopted
shall, however, be such that the result shall be in accordance with the
principles contained in this Article.

(5) No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by
reason of the mere purchase by that permanent establishment of goods or
merchandise for the enterprise.

(6) For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be
attributed to the permanent establishment shall be determined by the
same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to
the contrary.

(7) Where profits include items of income which are dealt with
separately in other Articles of this Agreement, then the provisions of
those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.

(8) For the purpose of paragraph 1, the term "directly or indirectly
attributable to the permanent establishment" includes profits arising
from transactions in which the permanent establishment has been involved
and such profits shall be regarded as attributable to the permanent
establishment to the extent appropriate to the part played by the
permanent establishment in those transactions, even if those
transactions are made or placed directly with the overseas head office
of the enterprise rather than with the permanent establishment.

ARTICLE 8 Shipping and Air Transport

Profits derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the
operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall be taxable
only in that State.

(2) The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to profits from the
participation in a pool, a joint business or an international operating
agency engaged in the operation of ships or aircraft.

(3) Interest on funds connected with the operation of ships or aircraft
in international traffic shall be regarded as profits derived from the
operation of such ships or aircraft, and the provisions of Article 11
shall not apply in relation to such interest.

(4) For the purposes of this Article, profits from the operation of
ships or aircraft in international traffic shall mean profits derived
from the transportation by sea or air of passengers, mail, livestock or
goods carried on by the owners or lessees or charterers of the ships or
aircraft, including profits from:

the sale of tickets for such transportation on behalf of other
enterprises;

(b) the incidental lease of ships or aircraft used in such
transportation;

(c) the use, maintenance or rental of containers (including trailers and
related equipment for the transport of containers) in connection with
such transportation; and

(d) any other activity directly connected with such transportation.

ARTICLE 9 Associated Enterprises

Where

an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly
in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of the other
Contracting State, or

(b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the
management, control or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting State
and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,

and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two
enterprises in their commercial or financial relations which differ from
those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any
profits which would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of
the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not so
accrued, may be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed
accordingly.

(2) Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise
of that Stateand taxes accordinglyprofits on which an enterprise of
the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State
and the profits so included are profits which would have accrued to the
enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between
the two enterprises had been those which would have been made between
independent enterprises, then that other State shall make an appropriate
adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In
determining such adjustment, due regard shall be had to the other
provisions of this Agreement and the competent authorities of the
Contracting States shall if necessary consult each other.

ARTICLE 10 Dividends

Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State
to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
State.

(2) However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State
of which the company paying the dividends is a resident and according to
the laws of that State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of
the dividends, the tax so charged shall not exceed:

10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends if the beneficial owner
is a company which owns at last 25 per cent of the shares of the company
paying the dividends;

(b) 15 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends in all other cases.

This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect
of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article, as
long as Singapore does not impose a tax on dividends in addition to the
tax chargeable on the profits or income of a company, dividends paid by
a company which is a resident of Singapore to a resident of India shall
be exempt from any tax in Singapore which may be chargeable on dividends
in addition to the tax chargeable on the profits or income of the
company.

(4) The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from
shares or other rights, not being debt-claims, participating in profits,
as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the
same taxation treatment as income from shares by the laws of the State
of which the company making the distribution is a resident.

(5) The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the
beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a Contracting
State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the
company paying the dividends is a resident, through a permanent
establishment situated therein or performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and
the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case,
the provisions of Article 7, or Article 14, as the case may be, shall
apply.

(6) Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives
profits or income from the other Contracting State, that other State may
not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company except in so far
as such dividends are paid to a resident of that other State or so far
as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in
that other State, nor subject the company's undistributed profits to a
tax on the company's undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid
or the undistributed profits consist wholly or partly of profits or
income arising in such other State.

(7)

Dividends shall be deemed to arise in India if they are paid by a
company which is a resident of India.

(b) Dividends shall be deemed to arise in Singapore:

if they are paid by a company which is a resident of Singapore; or

(ii) if they are paid by a company which is a resident of Malaysia out
of profits arising in Singapore and qualifying as dividends arising in
Singapore under Article VII of the Agreement for the Avoidance of Double
Taxation between Singapore and Malaysia signed on 26th December 1968.

ARTICLE 11 Interest

Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the
other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.

(2) However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in
which it arises, and according to the laws of that State, but if the
beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other Contracting
State, the tax so charged shall not exceed:

10 per cent of the gross amount of the interest if such interest is paid
on a loan granted by a bank carrying on a bona fide banking business or
by a similar financial institution (including an insurance company);

(b) 15 per cent of the gross amount of the interest in all other cases.

(3) The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from
debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by mortgage and
whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits;
and in particular, income from government securities and income from
bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such
securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall
not be regarded as interest for the purpose of this Article.

(4) The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the
beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a Contracting
State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the
interest arises, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or
performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed
base situated therein, and the debt-claim in respect of which the
interest paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment
or fixed base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14,
as the case may be, shall apply.

(5) Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the
payer is that Contracting State itself, a political subdivision, a local
authority, a statutory body or a resident of that State. Where, however,
the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a
Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent
establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the indebtedness
on which the interest is paid was incurred, and such interest is borne
by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such interest shall
be deemed to arise in the Contracting State in which the permanent
establishment or fixed base is situated.

(6) Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the
beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the
amount of the interest, having regard to the debt-claim for which it is
paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer
and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the
provisions of this Article shall apply to the last-mentioned amount. In
such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable
according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to
the other provisions of this Agreement.

ARTICLE 12 Royalties and Fees for Technical Services

Royalties and fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State
and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in
that other State.

(2) However, such royalties and fees for technical services may also be
taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise and according to the
laws of that Contracting State, but if the recipient is the beneficial
owner of the royalties or fees for technical services, the tax so
charged shall not exceed 10 percent.

(3) The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any
kind received as a consideration for the use of, or the right to use:

any copyright of a literary, artistic or scientific work, including
cinematograph films or films or tapes used for radio or television
broadcasting, any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret
formula or process, or for information concerning industrial, commercial
or scientific experience, including gains derived from the alienation of
any such right, property or information;

(b) any industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, other than
payments derived by an enterprise from activities described in paragraph
4(b) or 4(c) of Article 8.

(4) The term "fees for technical services" as used in this Article means
payments of any kind to any person in consideration for services of a
managerial, technical or consultancy nature (including the provision of
such services through technical or other personnel) if such services:

are ancillary and subsidiary to the application or enjoyment of the
right, property or information for which a payment described in
paragraph 3 is received; or

(b) make available technical knowledge, experience, skill, know-how or
processes, which enables the person acquiring the services to apply the
technology contained therein; or

(c) consist of the development and transfer of a technical plan or
technical design, but excludes any service that does not enable the
person acquiring the service to apply the technology contained therein.

For the purposes of (b) and (c) above, the person acquiring the service
shall be deemed to include an agent, nominee, or transferee of such
person.

(5) Notwithstanding paragraph 4, "fees for technical services" does not
include payments:

for services that are ancillary and subsidiary, as well as inextricably
and essentially linked, to the sale of property other than a sale
described in paragraph 3(a);

(b) for services that are ancillary and subsidiary to the rental of
ships, aircraft, containers or other equipment used in connection with
the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic;

(c) for teaching in or by educational institutions;

(d) for services for the personal use of the individual or individuals
making the payment;

(e) to an employee of the person making the payments or to any
individual or firm of individuals (other than a company) for
professional services as defined in Article 14;

(f) for services rendered in connection with an installation or
structure used for the exploration or exploitation of natural resources
referred to in paragraph 2(j) of Article 5;

(g) for services referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article 5.

(6) The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the
beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical services, being
a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other
Contracting State in which the royalties or fees for technical services
arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs
in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base
situated therein, and the right, property or contract in respect of
which the royalties or fees for technical services are paid is
effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base.
In such case, the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may
be, shall apply.

(7) Royalties and fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise
in a Contracting State when the payer is that State itself, a political
subdivision, a local authority, a statutory body or a resident of that
State. Where, however, the person paying the royalties or fees for
technical services, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or
not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed
base in connection with which the liability to pay the royalties or fees
for technical services was incurred, and such royalties or fees for
technical services are borne by such permanent establishment or fixed
base, then such royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed
to arise in the State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base
is situated.

(8) Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the
beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the
amount of royalties or fees for technical services paid exceeds the
amount which would have been paid in the absence of such relationship,
the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned
amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain
taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard
being had to the other provisions of this Agreement.

ARTICLE 13 Capital Gains

Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation
of immovable property, referred to in Article 6, and situated in the
other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.

(2) Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the
business property of a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a
Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable
property pertaining to a fixed base available to a resident of a
Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of
performing independent personal services, including such gains from the
alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or together with the
whole enterprise) or of such fixed base, may be taxed in that other
State.

(3) Gains from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in
international traffic or movable property pertaining to the operation of
such ships or aircraft shall be taxable only in the Contracting State of
which the alienator is a resident.

(4A) Gains from the alienation of shares acquired before 1 April 2017 in
a company which is a resident of a Contracting State shall be taxable
only in the Contracting State in which the alienator is a resident.

(4B) Gains from the alienation of shares acquired on or after 1 April
2017 in a company which is a resident of a Contracting State may be
taxed in that State.

(4C) However, the gains referred to in paragraph 4B of this Article
which arise during the period beginning on 1 April 2017 and ending on 31
March 2019 may be taxed in the State of which the company whose shares
are being alienated is a resident at a tax rate that shall not exceed 50
percent of the tax rate applicable on such gains in that State.

(5) Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred
to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4A and 4B of this Article shall be taxable
only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.

ARTICLE 14 Independent Personal Services

Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State
from the performance of professional services or other independent
activities of a similar character shall be taxable only in that State
except in the following circumstances when such income may also be taxed
in the other Contracting State:

if he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other
Contracting State for the purpose of performing his activities; in that
case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base
may be taxed in that other State; or

(b) if his stay in the other Contracting State is for a period or
periods amounting to or exceeding in the aggregate 90 days in the
relevant fiscal year; in that case, only so much of the income as is
derived from his activities performed in that other State may be taxed
in that other State.

(2) The term "professional services" includes independent scientific,
literary, artistic, educational or teaching activities, as well as the
independent activities of physicians, surgeons, lawyers, engineers,
architects, dentists and accountants.

ARTICLE 15 Dependent Personal Services

Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18, 19, 20 and 21, salaries,
wages and other similar remuneration derived by a resident of a
Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in
that State unless the employment is exercised in the other Contracting
State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is
derived therefrom may be taxed in that other State.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived
by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment
exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the
first-mentioned State if:

the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not
exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in the relevant fiscal year; and

(b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not
a resident of the other State; and

(c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a
fixed base which the employer has in the other State.

(3) In the case of a recipient who satisfies all the conditions under
subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) of paragraph 2, if his remuneration is
deductible as an expense against fees for technical services (dealt with
under Article 12) derived by his employer and the employer has no
permanent establishment in the other Contracting State, the remuneration
may, notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, be taxed in that
State. In such case, the tax so charged shall not exceed 15 per cent of
the gross amount of the remuneration.

(4) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article,
remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised aboard a ship
or aircraft operated in international traffic by an enterprise of a
Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State.

ARTICLE 16 Directors' Fees

Directors' fees and similar payments derived by a resident of a
Contracting State in his capacity as a member of the board of directors
of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be
taxed in that other State.

ARTICLE 17 Artistes and Sportspersons

Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 and 15, income derived by
a resident of a Contracting State as an artiste such as a theatre,
motion picture, radio or television artiste or a musician or as a
sportsperson, from his personal activities as such exercised in the
other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.

(2) Where income in respect of or in connection with personal activities
exercised by an artiste or sportsperson accrues not to the artiste or
sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may,
notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 7, 14 and 15, be taxed in the
Contracting State in which the activities of the artistes or
sportspersons are exercised.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, income derived by an
artiste or a sportsperson who is a resident of a Contracting State from
his personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting
State, shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State, if the
activities in the other State are supported wholly or substantially from
the public funds of the first-mentioned State, including any of its
political subdivisions, local authorities or statutory bodies.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 and Articles 7, 14 and
15, where income in respect of or in connection with personal activities
exercised by an artiste or a sportsperson in a Contracting State accrues
not to the artiste or sportsperson himself but to another person, that
income shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State, if that
other person is supported wholly or substantially from the public funds
of that other State, including any of its political subdivisions, local
authorities or statutory bodies.

ARTICLE 18 Remuneration and Pensions in Respect of Government Service

Remuneration, other than a pension, paid by a Contracting State or a
political subdivision, a local authority or a statutory body thereof to
an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or
subdivision or authority or body shall be taxable only in that State.

(b) However, such remuneration shall be taxable only in the other
Contracting State if the services are rendered in that other State and
the individual is a resident of that State who:

is a national of that State; or

(ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of
rendering the services.

(2)

Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or
a political subdivision, a local authority or a statutory body thereof
to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or
subdivision or authority or body shall be taxable only in that State.

(b) However, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting
State if the individual is a resident of, and a national of that other
State.

(3) The provisions of Articles 15, 16 and 19 shall apply to remuneration
and pensions in respect of services rendered in connection with a
business carried on by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or
a local authority or a statutory body thereof.

ARTICLE 19 Non-Government Pensions and Annuities

Any pension, other than a pension referred to in Article 18, or any
annuity derived by a resident of a Contracting State from sources within
the other Contracting State may be taxed only in the first-mentioned
State.

(2) The term "pension" means a periodic payment made in consideration of
past services or by way of compensation for injuries received in the
course of performance of services.

(3) The term "annuity" means a stated sum payable periodically at stated
times during life or during a specified or ascertainable period of time,
under an obligation to make the payments in return for adequate and full
consideration in money or money's worth.

ARTICLE 20 Students and Trainees

An individual who is or was a resident of a Contracting State
immediately before making a visit to the other Contracting State and is
temporarily present in the other State solely:

as a student at a recognised university, college, school or other
similar recognised educational institution in that other State;

(b) as a business or technical apprentice; or

(c) as a recipient of a grant, allowance or award for the primary
purpose of study, research or training from the Government of either
State or from a scientific, education, religious or charitable
organisation or under a technical assistance programme entered into by
the Government of either State; shall be exempt from tax in that other
State on:

all remittances from abroad for the purposes of his maintenance,
education, study, research or training;

(ii) the amount of such grant, allowance or award; and

(iii) any remuneration not exceeding United States Dollars 500 per month
or its equivalent in local currency in respect of services in that other
State provided the services are performed in connection with his study,
research or training or are necessary for the purposes of his
maintenance.

(2) The benefits of this Article shall extend only for such period of
time as may be reasonable or customarily required to complete the
education or training undertaken, but in no event shall any individual
have the benefits of this Article for more than five consecutive years
from the date of his first arrival in that other Contracting State.

ARTICLE 21 Teachers and Researchers

An individual who is or was a resident of a Contracting State
immediately before making a visit to the other Contracting State, and
who, at the invitation of any university, college, school or other
similar educational institution, visits that other State for a period
not exceeding two years solely for the purpose of teaching or research
or both at such educational institution shall be exempt from tax in that
other State on any remuneration for such teaching or research.

(2) This Article shall not apply to income from research if such
research is undertaken primarily for the private benefit of a specific
person or persons.

ARTICLE 22 Income of Government

The Government of a Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in the
other Contracting State in respect of income derived by that Government
from sources within the other State.

(2) The types of income to which paragraph 1 applies are:

dividends under Article 10;

(b) interest under Article 11; and

(c) any other income or gains derived from transactions not pursuant to
the conduct of commercial activities.

(3) For the purposes of paragraph 1, the term "Government":

in the case of Singapore means the Government of Singapore and shall
include:

the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Board of Commissioners of
Currency;

(ii) the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Pte Ltd to the
extent it is not engaged in the conduct of commercial activities;

(iii) a statutory body not engaged in the conduct of commercial
activities;

(iv) any other institution or body as may be agreed from time to time
between the competent authorities of the Contracting States;

(b) in the case of India means the Government of India and shall
include:

the Government of the States and the Union Territories of India;

(ii) the Reserve Bank of India or any of its subsidiaries which is not
engaged in the conduct of commercial activities;

(iii) a statutory body not engaged in the conduct of commercial
activities;

(iv) any other institution or body as may be agreed from time to time
between the competent authorities of the Contracting States.

ARTICLE 23 Income Not Expressly Mentioned

Items of income which are not expressly mentioned in the foregoing
Articles of this Agreement may be taxed in accordance with the taxation
laws of the respective Contracting States.

ARTICLE 24 Limitation of Relief

Where this Agreement provides (with or without other conditions) that
income from sources in a Contracting State shall be exempt from tax, or
taxed at a reduced rate in that Contracting State and under the laws in
force in the other Contracting State the said income is subject to tax
by reference to the amount thereof which is remitted to or received in
that other Contracting State and not by reference to the full amount
thereof, then the exemption or reduction of tax to be allowed under this
Agreement in the first-mentioned Contracting State shall apply to so
much of the income as is remitted to or received in that other
Contracting State.

(2) However, this limitation does not apply to income derived by the
Government of a Contracting State or any person approved by the
competent authority of that State for the purpose of this paragraph. The
term "Government" includes its agencies and statutory bodies.

ARTICLE 24A

A resident of a Contracting State shall not be entitled to the benefits
of paragraph 4A or paragraph 4C of Article 13 of this Agreement if its
affairs were arranged with the primary purpose to take advantage of the
benefits in the said paragraph 4A or paragraph 4C of Article 13 of this
Agreement, as the case may be.

(2) A shell or conduit company that claims it is a resident of a
Contracting State shall not be entitled to the benefits of paragraph 4A
or paragraph 4C of Article 13 of this Agreement. A shell or conduit
company is any legal entity falling within the definition of resident
with negligible or nil business operations or with no real and
continuous business activities carried out in that Contracting State.

(3) A resident of a Contracting State is deemed to be a shell or conduit
company if its annual expenditure on operations in that Contracting
State is less than S $200,000 in Singapore or Indian Rs. 5,000,000 in
India, as the case may be:

in the case of paragraph 4A of Article 13 of this Agreement, for each of
the 12 month periods in the immediately preceding period of 24 months
from the date on which the gains arise;

(b) in the case of paragraph 4C of Article 13 of this Agreement, for the
immediately preceding period of 12 months from the date on which the
gains arise.

(4) A resident of a Contracting State is deemed not to be a shell or
conduit company if:

it is listed on a recognised stock exchange of the Contracting State; or

(b) its annual expenditure on operations in that Contracting State is
equal to or more than S $200,000 in Singapore or Indian Rs. 5,000,000 in
India, as the case may be:

in the case of paragraph 4A of Article 13 of this Agreement, for each of
the 12 month periods in the immediately preceding period of 24 months
from the date on which the gains arise;

(ii) in the case of paragraph 4C of Article 13 of this Agreement, for
the immediately preceding period of 12 months from the date on which the
gains arise.

(5) For the purpose of paragraph 4 (a) of this Article, a recognised
stock exchange means:

in the case of Singapore, the securities market operated by the
Singapore Exchange Limited, Singapore Exchange Securities Trading
Limited and The Central Depository (Pte) Limited; and

(b) in the case of India, a stock exchange recognised by the Securities
and Exchange Board of India.

Explanation: The cases of legal entities not having bona fide business
activities shall be covered by paragraph 1 of this Article.

ARTICLE 25 Avoidance of Double Taxation

The laws in force in either of the Contracting States shall continue to
govern the taxation of income in the respective Contracting States
except where express provision to the contrary is made in this
Agreement.

(2) Where a resident of India derives income which, in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement, may be taxed in Singapore, India shall
allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident an
amount equal to the Singapore tax paid, whether directly or by
deduction. Where the income is a dividend paid by a company which is a
resident of Singapore to a company which is a resident of India and
which owns directly or indirectly not less than 25 per cent of the share
capital of the company paying the dividend, the deduction shall take
into account the Singapore tax paid in respect of the profits out of
which the dividend is paid. Such deduction in either case shall not,
however, exceed that part of the tax (as computed before the deduction
is given) which is attributable to the income which may be taxed in
Singapore.

(3) For the purposes of paragraph 2 of this Article, "Singapore tax
paid" shall be deemed to include any amount of tax which would have been
payable but for the reduction or exemption of Singapore tax granted
under:

the provisions of the Economic Expansion Incentives (Relief from Income
Tax) Act and the provisions of sections 13(1)(t), 13(1)(u), 13(1)(v),
13(2), 13A, 13B, 13F, 14B, 14C, 14E, 43A, 43C, 43D, 43E, 43F, 43G, 43H,
43I, 43J and 43K of the Income Tax Act, insofar as they were in force
and have not been modified since the date of signature of this
Agreement, or have been modified in minor respects so as not to affect
their general character;

(b) any other provisions which may subsequently be enacted granting an
exemption or reduction of tax which is agreed by the competent
authorities of the Contracting States to be of a substantially similar
character to any provision referred to in subparagraph (a) of this
paragraph, if such provision has not been modified thereafter or has
been modified only in minor respects so as not to affect its general
character.

(4) Subject to the provisions of the laws of Singapore regarding the
allowance as a credit against Singapore tax of tax paid in any country
other than Singapore, Indian tax paid, whether directly or by deduction,
in respect of income from sources within India shall be allowed as a
credit against Singapore tax payable in respect of that income. Where
such income is a dividend paid by a company which is a resident of India
to a resident of Singapore which owns not less than 25 per cent of the
share capital of the company paying the dividends, the credit shall take
into account Indian tax paid in respect of its profits by the company
paying the dividends.

(5) For the purposes of paragraph 4 of this Article the term "Indian tax
paid" shall be deemed to include any amount of tax which would have been
payable in India but for a deduction allowed in computing the taxable
income or an exemption or reduction of tax granted for that year in
question under:

Sections 10(4), 10(4B), 10(5B), 10(15)(iv), 10A, 10B, 33AB, 80I and
80IA, insofar as these provisions were in force and have not been
modified since the date of signature of this Agreement, or have been
modified only in minor respects so as not to affect their general
character;

(b) any other provision which may subsequently be enacted granting an
exemption or reduction of tax which is agreed by the competent
authorities of the Contracting States to be of a substantially similar
character to a provision referred to in subparagraph (a) of this
paragraph, if such provision has not been modified thereafter or has
been modified only in minor aspects so as not to affect its general
character.

(6) Income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement,
is not to be subjected to tax in a Contracting State, may be taken into
account for calculating the rate of tax to be imposed in that
Contracting State.

ARTICLE 26 Non-Discrimination

The nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other
Contracting State to any taxation or any requirement connected therewith
which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which nationals of that other State in the same
circumstances and under the same conditions are or may be subjected.

(2) The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a
Contracting State has in the other Contracting State shall not be less
favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on
enterprises of that other State carrying on the same activities in the
same circumstances or under the same conditions. This provision shall
not be construed as preventing a Contracting State from charging the
profits of a permanent establishment which an enterprise of the other
Contracting State has in the first-mentioned State at a rate of tax
which is higher than that imposed on the profits of a similar enterprise
of the first-mentioned Contracting State, nor as being in conflict with
the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 7 of this Agreement.

(3) Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly
or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by one or more
residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the
first-mentioned State to any taxation or any requirement connected
therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and
connected requirements to which other similar enterprises of that
first-mentioned State are or may be subjected in the same circumstances
and under the same conditions.

(4) Nothing contained in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Article shall be
construed as:

obliging a Contracting State to grant to residents of the other
Contracting State any personal allowances, reliefs, reductions and
deductions which it grants to its own residents;

(b) affecting any provisions of the tax laws of the respective
Contracting States regarding the imposition of tax on non-resident
persons as such;

(c) obliging a Contracting State to grant to nationals of the other
Contracting State those personal allowances, reliefs, reductions and
deductions for tax purposes which it grants to its own citizens who are
not resident in that State or to such other persons as may be specified
in the taxation laws of that State; and

(d) affecting any provisions of the tax laws of the respective
Contracting States regarding any tax concessions granted to persons
fulfilling specified conditions.

(5) In this Article, the term "taxation" means taxes which are the
subject of this Agreement.

ARTICLE 27 Mutual Agreement Procedure

Where a resident of a Contracting State considers that the actions of
one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in
taxation not in accordance with this Agreement, he may, notwithstanding
the remedies provided by the national laws of those States, present his
case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is
a resident. This case must be presented within three years of the date
of receipt of notice of the action which gives rise to taxation not in
accordance with the Agreement.

(2) The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to
it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive at an
appropriate solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the
competent authority of the other Contracting State, with a view to
avoidance of taxation not in accordance with the Agreement. Any
agreement reached shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits
in the national laws of the Contracting States.

(3) The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour
to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties or doubts arising as to
the interpretation or application of the Agreement. They may also
consult together for the elimination of double taxation in cases not
provided for in the Agreement.

(4) The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate
with each other directly for the purpose of reaching an agreement in the
sense of the preceding paragraphs. When it seems advisable in order to
reach agreement to have an oral exchange of opinions, such exchange may
take place through a Commission consisting of representatives of the
competent authorities of the Contracting States.

ARTICLE 28 Exchange of Information

The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such
information as is foreseeably relevant for carrying out the provisions
of this Agreement or to the administration or enforcement of the
domestic laws concerning taxes of every kind and description imposed on
behalf of the Contracting States, or of their political subdivisions or
local authorities, insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to
the Agreement. The exchange of information is not restricted by Articles
1 and 2.

(2) Any information received under paragraph 1 by a Contracting State
shall be treated as secret in the same manner as information obtained
under the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to
persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies)
concerned with the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or
prosecution in respect of, the determination of appeals in relation to
the taxes referred to in paragraph 1, or the oversight of the above.
Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such
purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings
or in judicial decisions.

(3) In no case shall the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 be construed
so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:

to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and
administrative practice of that or of the other Contracting State;

(b) to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in
the normal course of the administration of that or of the other
Contracting State;

(c) to supply information which would disclose any trade, business,
industrial, commercial or professional secret or trade process, or
information the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy
(ordre public).

(4) If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance
with this Article, the other Contracting State shall use its information
gathering measures to obtain the requested information, even though that
other State may not need such information for its own tax purposes. The
obligation contained in the preceding sentence is subject to the
limitations of paragraph 3 but in no case shall such limitations be
construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply information
solely because it has no domestic interest in such information.

(5) In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 be construed to
permit a Contracting State to decline to supply information solely
because the information is held by a bank, other financial institution,
nominee or person acting in an agency or a fiduciary capacity or because
it relates to ownership interests in a person.

ARTICLE 28A Miscellaneous

This Agreement shall not prevent a Contracting State from applying its
domestic law and measures concerning the prevention of tax avoidance or
tax evasion.

ARTICLE 29 Diplomatic and Consular Officials

Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the fiscal privileges of
diplomatic or consular officials under the general rules of
international law or under the provisions of special agreements.

ARTICLE 30 Entry Into Force

Each of the Contracting States shall notify the other of the completion
of the procedures required by its law for the bringing into force of
this Agreement. This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of the
later of these notifications and shall thereupon have effect:

in India: in respect of income arising in any fiscal year beginning on
or after the first day of April 1994;

(b) in Singapore: in respect of income arising in any fiscal year
beginning on or after the first day of January 1994.

(2) The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and
the Government of the Republic of Singapore for the avoidance of double
taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on
income signed in Singapore on 20th April, 1981 shall terminate and cease
to be effective from the date on which this Agreement comes into effect.

ARTICLE 31 Termination

This Agreement shall remain in force indefinitely but either of the
Contracting States may, on or before the thirtieth day of June in any
calendar year beginning after the expiration of a period of five years
from the date of its entry into force, give the other Contracting State,
through diplomatic channels, written notice of termination and, in such
event, this Agreement shall cease to have effect:

in India: in respect of income arising in any fiscal year beginning on
or after the 1st day of April next following the date on which the
notice of termination is given;

(b) in Singapore: in respect of income arising in any fiscal year
beginning on or after the 1st day of January next following the date on
which the notice of termination is given.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have
signed the present Agreement. DONE in duplicate at India this
twenty-fourth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-four
in the Hindi and English languages, both texts being equally authentic.
In the case of divergence between the two texts, the English text shall
be the operative one.

For the Government of the Republic of Singapore: S. JAYAKUMAR

For the Government of the Republic of India: MANMOHAN SINGH

TREATY, INCOME, India and United Kingdom, in-force (1993) --Latest
Amended Version

TREATY TYPE: INCOME

STATUS: IN-FORCE

SIGNING DATE: JAN 25, 1993 (Treaty); OCT 30, 2012 (Protocol #1)

ENTRY INTO FORCE DATE: OCT 25, 1993 (Treaty); DEC 27, 2013 (Protocol #1)

EFFECTIVE DATES: See Article 30 of the Treaty. See Article X of Protocol
#1.

SCOPE: BILATERAL

MULTILATERAL INSTRUMENT (MLI): Both signatories to this agreement have
signed and deposited their instrument of ratification for the MLI and
this agreement has been designated by both as a covered agreement. Each
signatorys reservations and notifications may be viewed using this
tool:

A synthesized version of the text of this agreement incorporating
changes made by the MLI is available:

CONVENTION BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN
AND NORTHERN IRELAND AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA FOR THE
AVOIDANCE OF DOUBLE TAXATION AND THE PREVENTION OF FISCAL EVASION WITH
RESPECT TO TAXES ON INCOME AND CAPITAL GAINS

The Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland and the Government of the Republic of India, Desiring to
conclude a new Convention for the avoidance of double taxation and the
prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and capital
gains, Have agreed as follows:

ARTICLE 1 Scope of the Convention

This Convention shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both
of the Contracting States.

(2) This Convention extends to the territory of each Contracting State,
including its territorial sea, and to those areas of the exclusive
economic zone or the continental shelf adjacent to the outer limit of
the territorial sea of each State over which it has, in accordance with
international law, sovereign rights for the purpose of exploration and
exploitation of the natural resources of such areas, and references in
this Convention to the Contracting State or to either of them shall be
construed accordingly.

ARTICLE 2 Taxes Covered

The taxes which are the subject of this Convention are:

in the United Kingdom:

the income tax;

(ii) the corporation tax;

(iii) the capital gains tax; and

(iv) the petroleum revenue tax;

(hereinafter referred to as "United Kingdom tax");

(b) in India:

the income-tax including any surcharge thereon;

(hereinafter referred to as "Indian tax").

(2) This Convention shall also apply to any identical or substantially
similar taxes which are imposed by either Contracting State after the
date of signature of this Convention in addition to, or in place of, the
taxes of that Contracting State referred to in paragraph (1) of this
Article. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall
notify each other of any substantial changes which are made in their
respective taxation laws.

ARTICLE 3 General Definitions

In this Convention, unless the context otherwise requires:

the term "United Kingdom" means Great Britain and Northern Ireland;

(b) the term "India" means the Republic of India;

(c) the term "tax" means United Kingdom tax or Indian tax, as the
context requires but shall not include any amount which is payable in
respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which
this Convention applies or which represents a penalty imposed relating
to those taxes;

(d) the term "fiscal year" in relation to Indian tax means "previous
year" as defined in the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and in
relation to United Kingdom tax means a year beginning with 6th April in
one year and ending with 5th April in the following year;

(e) the terms "a Contracting State" and "the other Contracting State"
mean India or the United Kingdom, as the context requires;

(f) the term "person" includes an individual, a company, a body of
persons and any other entity which is treated as a taxable unit under
the taxation laws in force in the respective Contracting States;

(g) the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity which is
treated as a company or body corporate for tax purposes;

(h) the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the
other Contracting State" mean respectively an enterprise carried on by a
resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a
resident of the other Contracting State;

the term "competent authority" means, in the case of the United Kingdom,
the Commissioners of Inland Revenue or their authorised representative,
and, in the case of India, the Central Government in the Ministry of
Finance (Department of Revenue) or their authorised representative;

(j) the term "international traffic" means only transport by a ship or
aircraft operated by an enterprise of a Contracting State except when
the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other
Contracting State;

(k) the term "Government" means the Government of a Contracting State or
a political subdivision or local authority thereof. In relation to the
United Kingdom, the term "political subdivision" shall include Northern
Ireland.

(3) As regards the application of this Convention by a Contracting State
any term not otherwise defined shall, unless the context otherwise
requires, have the meaning which it has under the laws of that
Contracting State relating to the taxes which are the subject of this
Convention.

ARTICLE 4 Fiscal Domicile

For the purposes of this Convention, the term "resident of a Contracting
State" means any person who, under the laws of that State, is liable to
tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of management,
place of incorporation, or any other criterion of a similar nature,
provided, however, that:

this term does not include any person who is liable to tax in that State
in respect only of income from sources in that State; and

(b) in the case of income derived or paid by a partnership, estate, or
trust, this term applies only to the extent that the income derived by
such partnership, estate, or trust is subject to tax in that State as
the income of a resident, either in its hands or in the hands of its
partners or beneficiaries.

(2) Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article
an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his status
shall be determined in accordance with the following rules:

he shall be deemed to be a resident of the Contracting State in which he
has a permanent home available to him. If he has a permanent home
available to him in both Contracting States, he shall be deemed to be a
resident of the Contracting State with which his personal and economic
relations are closer (centre of vital interests);

(b) if the Contracting State in which he has his centre of vital
interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent home
available to him in either Contracting State, he shall be deemed to be a
resident of the Contracting State in which he has an habitual abode;

(c) if he has an habitual abode in both Contracting States or in neither
of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the Contracting State of
which he is a national;

(d) if he is a national of both Contracting States or of neither of
them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle
the question by mutual agreement.

(3) Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article a
person other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting
States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident of the Contracting
State in which its place of effective management is situated.

ARTICLE 5 Permanent Establishment

For the purposes of this Convention, the term "permanent establishment"
means a fixed place of business through which the business of an
enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.

(2) The term "permanent establishment" shall include especially:

a place of management;

(b) a branch;

(c) an office;

(d) a factory;

(e) a workshop;

(f) premises used as a sales outlet or for receiving or soliciting
orders;

(g) a warehouse in relation to a person providing storage facilities for
others;

(h) a mine, an oil or gas well, quarry or other place of extraction of
natural resources;

an installation or structure used for the exploration or exploitation of
natural resources;

(j) a building site or construction, installation or assembly project or
supervisory activities in connection therewith, where such site, project
or supervisory activity continues for a period of more than six months,
or where such project or supervisory activity, being incidental to the
sale of machinery or equipment, continues for a period not exceeding six
months and the charges payable for the project or supervisory activity
exceed 10 per cent of the sale price of the machinery and equipment;

(k) the furnishing of services including managerial services, other than
those taxable under Article 13 (Royalties and fees for technical
services), within a Contracting State by an enterprise through employees
or other personnel, but only if:

activities of that nature continue within that State for a period or
periods aggregating more than 90 days within any twelve-month period; or

(ii) services are performed within that State for an enterprise within
the meaning of paragraph (1) of Article 10 (Associated enterprises) and
continue for a period or periods aggregating more than 30 days within
any twelve-month period.

Provided that for the purposes of this paragraph an enterprise shall be
deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State and to
carry on business through that permanent establishment if it provides
services or facilities in connection with, or supplies plant and
machinery on hire used or to be used in, the prospecting for, or
extraction or production of, mineral oils in that State.

(3) The term "permanent establishment" shall not be deemed to include:

the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage or display of
goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise;

(b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise solely for the purpose of storage or display;

(c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by another enterprise;

(d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose
of purchasing goods or merchandise, or for collecting information, for
the enterprise;

(e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose
of advertising, for the supply of information or for scientific
research, being activities solely of a preparatory or auxiliary
character in the trade or business of the enterprise. However, this
provision shall not be applicable where the enterprise maintains any
other fixed place of business in the other Contracting State for any
purpose or purposes other than the purposes specified in this paragraph;

(f) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any
combination of activities mentioned in sub-paragraphs (a) to (e) of this
paragraph, provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of
business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory or
auxiliary character.

(4) A person acting in a Contracting State for or on behalf of an
enterprise of the other Contracting Stateother than an agent of an
independent status to whom paragraph (5) of this Article appliesshall
be deemed to be a permanent establishment of that enterprise in the
first-mentioned State if:

he has, and habitually exercises in that State, an authority to
negotiate and enter into contracts for or on behalf of the enterprise,
unless his activities are limited to the purchase of goods or
merchandise for the enterprise; or

(b) he habitually maintains in the first-mentioned Contracting State a
stock of goods or merchandise from which he regularly delivers goods or
merchandise for or on behalf of the enterprise; or

(c) he habitually secures orders in the first-mentioned State, wholly or
almost wholly for the enterprise itself or for the enterprise and other
enterprises controlling, controlled by, or subject to the same common
control, as that enterprise.

(5) An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to have a
permanent establishment in the other Contracting State merely because it
carries on business in that other State through a broker, general
commission agent or any other agent of an independent status, where such
persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business. However, if
the activities of such an agent are carried out wholly or almost wholly
for the enterprise (or for the enterprise and other enterprises which
are controlled by it or have a controlling interest in it or are subject
to the same common control) he shall not be considered to be an agent of
an independent status for the purposes of this paragraph.

(6) The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State
controls or is controlled by a company which is a resident of the other
Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State
(whether through a permanent establishment or otherwise), shall not of
itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.

(7) For the purposes of this Article the term "control", in relation to
a company means the ability to exercise control over the company's
affairs by means of the direct or indirect holding of the greater part
of the issued share capital or voting power in the company.

ARTICLE 6 Income From Immovable Property

Income from immovable property may be taxed in the Contracting State in
which such property is situated.

(2)

The term "immovable property" shall, subject to the provisions of
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, be defined in accordance with the
law of the Contracting State in which the property in question is
situated.

(b) The term "immovable property" shall in any case include property
accessory to immovable property, livestock and equipment used in
agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law
respecting landed property apply, usufruct of immovable property and
rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working
of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural
resources. Ships and aircraft shall not be regarded as immovable
property.

(3) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article shall apply to
income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of
immovable property.

(4) The provisions of paragraphs (1) and (3) of this Article shall also
apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and to
income from immovable property used for the performance of independent
personal services.

ARTICLE 7 Business Profits

The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable
only in that State unless the enterprise carries on business in the
other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated
therein. If the enterprise carries on business as aforesaid, the profits
of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of
them as is directly or indirectly attributable to that permanent
establishment.

(2) Where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in
the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated
therein, the profits which that permanent establishment might be
expected to make if it were a distinct and separate enterprise engaged
in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions
and dealing wholly independently with the enterprise of which it is a
permanent establishment shall be treated for the purposes of paragraph
(1) of this Article as being the profits directly attributable to that
permanent establishment.

(3) Where a permanent establishment takes an active part in negotiating,
concluding or fulfilling contracts entered into by the enterprise, then,
notwithstanding that other parts of the enterprise have also
participated in those transactions, that proportion of profits of the
enterprise arising out of those contracts which the contribution of the
permanent establishment to those transactions bears to that of the
enterprise as a whole shall be treated for the purposes of paragraph (1)
of this Article as being the profits indirectly attributable to that
permanent establishment.

(4) Insofar as it has been customary in a Contracting State according to
its law to determine the profits to be attributed to a permanent
establishment on the basis of an apportionment of the total profits of
the enterprise to its various parts, nothing in paragraphs (1) and (2)
of this Article shall preclude that Contracting State from determining
the profits to be taxed by such an apportionment as may be necessary;
the method of apportionment adopted shall, however, be such that the
result shall be in accordance with the principles laid down in this
Article.

(5) Subject to paragraphs (6) and (7) of this Article, in the
determination of the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall
be allowed as deductions expenses which are incurred for the purposes of
the business of the permanent establishment, including executive and
general administrative expenses so incurred, whether in the State in
which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere, which are
allowed under the provisions of and subject to the limitations of the
domestic law of the Contracting State in which the permanent
establishment is situated.

(6) Where the law of the Contracting State in which the permanent
establishment is situated imposes a restriction on the amount of the
executive and general administrative expenses which may be allowed, and
the restriction is relaxed or overriden by any Convention between that
Contracting State and a third State which is a member of the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development or a State in a
comparable stage of development, and that Convention enters into force
after the date of entry into force of this Convention, the competent
authority of that Contracting State shall notify the competent authority
of the other Contracting State of the terms of the relevant paragraph in
the Convention with that third State immediately after the entry into
force of that Convention and, if the competent authority of the other
Contracting State so requests, the provisions of this Convention shall
be amended by protocol to reflect such terms.

(7) Paragraph (5) of this Article shall not apply to amounts, if any,
paid (otherwise than towards reimbursement of actual expenses) by the
permanent establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of
its other offices, by way of royalties, fees or other similar payments
in return for the use of patents or other rights, or by way of
commission, for specific services performed or for management, or,
except in the case of a banking enterprise, by way of interest on monies
lent to the permanent establishment; nor shall account be taken in the
determination of the profits of a permanent establishment of amounts
charged (otherwise than towards reimbursement of actual expenses) by the
permanent establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of
its other offices, by way of royalties, fees or other similar payments
in return for the use of patents or other rights, or by way of
commission, for specific services performed or for management, or,
except in the case of a banking enterprise, by way of interest on monies
lent to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices.

(8) No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by
reason of the mere purchase by that permanent establishment of goods or
merchandise for the enterprise.

(9) Where profits include items of income which are dealt with
separately in other Articles of this Convention, then the provisions of
those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.

ARTICLE 8 Air Transport

Profits derived from the operation of aircraft in international traffic
by an enterprise of one of the Contracting States shall not be taxed in
the other Contracting State.

(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article shall likewise apply
in respect of participation in pools of any kind by enterprises engaged
in air transport.

(3) For the purposes of this Article the term "operation of aircraft"
shall include transportation by air of persons, livestock, goods or
mail, carried on by the owners or lessees or charterers of aircraft,
including the sale of tickets for such transportation on behalf of other
enterprises, the incidental lease of aircraft on a charter basis and any
other activity directly connected with such transportation.

(4) Gains derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the
alienation of aircraft owned and operated by the enterprise, the income
from which is taxable only in that State, shall be taxed only in that
State.

ARTICLE 9 Shipping

Income of an enterprise of a Contracting State from the operation of
ships in international traffic shall be taxable only in that State.

(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article shall not apply to
income from journeys between places which are situated in a Contracting
State.

(3) For the purposes of this Article, income from the operation of ships
includes income derived from the rental on a bareboat basis of ships if
such rental income is incidental to the income described in paragraph
(1) of this Article.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 7 (Business profits) of
this Convention, the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this
Article shall likewise apply to income of an enterprise of a Contracting
State from the use, maintenance or rental of containers (including
trailers and related equipment for the transport of containers) used for
the transport of goods or merchandise.

(5) The provisions of this Article shall apply also to income derived
from participation in a pool, a joint business or an international
operating agency.

(6) Gains derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the
alienation of ships or containers owned and operated by the enterprise
shall be taxed only in that State if either the income from the
operation of the alienated ships or containers was taxed only in that
State, or the ships or containers are situated outside the other
Contracting State at the time of the alienation.

ARTICLE 10 Associated Enterprises

Where:

an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly
in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of the other
Contracting State, or

(b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the
management, control or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting State
and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,

and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two
enterprises in their commercial or financial relations which differ from
those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any
profits which would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of
the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not so
accrued, may be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed
accordingly.

(2) Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise
of that Stateand taxes accordinglyprofits on which an enterprise of
the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State
and the profits so included are profits which would have accrued to the
enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between
the two enterprises had been those which would have been made between
independent enterprises, then that other State shall make an appropriate
adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In
determining such adjustment, due regard shall be had to the other
provisions of this Convention and the competent authorities of the
Contracting States shall if necessary consult each other.

ARTICLE 11 Dividends

Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State
to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
State.

(2) However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State
of which the company paying the dividends is a resident and according to
the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividends is
a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not
exceed:

15 percent of the gross amount of the dividends where those dividends
are paid out of income (including gains) derived directly or indirectly
from immovable property within the meaning of Article 6 by an investment
vehicle which distributes most of this income annually and whose income
from such immovable property is exempted from tax;

(b) 10 percent of the gross amount of the dividends, in all other cases.

The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall by mutual
agreement settle the mode of application of these limitations. The
provisions of this paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the
company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.

(3) The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from
shares, or other rights, not being debt-claims, participating in
profits, as well as any other item which is subjected to the same
taxation treatment as income from shares by the laws of the State of
which the company making the distribution is a resident.

(4) The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall not apply
if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of
which the company paying the dividends is a resident, through a
permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other
State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein,
and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is
effectively connected with such permanent establishment. In such case
the provisions of Article 7 (Business profits) or Article 15
(Independent personal services), as may be the case, shall apply.

(5) Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives
profits or income from the other Contracting State, that other State may
not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar
as such dividends are paid to a resident of that other State or insofar
as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with a permanent establishment situated in that other State,
nor subject the company's undistributed profits to a tax on
undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed
profits consist wholly or partly of profits or income arising in that
other State.

(6) No relief shall be available under this Article if it was the main
purpose or one of the main purposes of any person concerned with the
creation or assignment of the shares or other rights in respect of which
the dividend is paid to take advantage of this Article by means of that
creation or assignment.

ARTICLE 12 Interest

Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the
other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.

(2) However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in
which it arises and according to the law of that State, provided that
where the resident of the other Contracting State is the beneficial
owner of the interest the tax so charged shall not exceed 15 per cent of
the gross amount of the interest.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (2) of this Article:

where the interest is paid to a bank carrying on a bona fide banking
business which is a resident of the other Contracting State and is the
beneficial owner of the interest, the tax charged in the Contracting
State in which the interest arises shall not exceed 10 per cent of the
gross amount of the interest;

(b) where the interest is paid to the Government of one of the
Contracting States or a political subdivision or local authority of that
State or the Reserve Bank of India, it shall not be subject to tax by
the State in which it arises.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 7 of this Convention and
of paragraphs (2) and (3) of this Article:

interest arising in India which is paid to and beneficially owned by a
resident of the United Kingdom shall be exempt from tax in India if it
is paid in respect of a loan made, guaranteed or insured, or any other
debt-claim or credit guaranteed or insured by the United Kingdom Export
Credits Guarantee Department; and

(b) interest arising in the United Kingdom which is paid to and
beneficially owned by a resident of India shall be exempt from tax in
the United Kingdom if it is paid in respect of a loan made, guaranteed
or insured, or any other debt-claim or credit guaranteed or insured by
the Export Credits and Guarantee Corporation of India and/or
Export-Import Bank of India.

(5) The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from
debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by mortgage and
whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits,
and in particular, income from Government securities and income from
bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such
securities, bonds or debentures but, subject to the provisions of
paragraph (9) of this Article, shall not include any item which is
treated as a distribution under the provisions of Article 11 (Dividends)
of this Convention.

(6) The provisions of paragraphs (1), (2) and (3)(a) of this Article
shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a
resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other
Contracting State in which the interest arises through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and
the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively
connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case
the provisions of Article 7 (Business profits) or Article 15
(Independent personal services) of this Convention, as the case may be,
shall apply.

(7) Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the
payer is that State itself, a political subdivision, a local authority
or a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the
interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in
a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in
connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was
incurred, and such interest is borne by that permanent establishment or
fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed to arise in the
Contracting State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is
situated.

(8) Where, owing to a special relationship between the payer and the
beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the
amount of the interest paid exceeds for whatever reason the amount which
would have been paid in the absence of such relationship, the provisions
of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In that
case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to
the law of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other
provisions of this Convention.

(9) Any provision in the laws of either Contracting State relating only
to interest paid to a non-resident company shall not operate so as to
require such interest paid to a company which is a resident of the other
Contracting State to be treated as a distribution or dividend by the
company paying such interest or to be left out of account as a deduction
in computing the taxable profits of the company paying the interest. The
preceding sentence shall not apply to interest paid to a company which
is a resident of one of the Contracting States in which more than 50 per
cent of the voting power is controlled, directly or indirectly, by a
person or persons who are residents of the other Contracting State.

(10) The relief from tax provided for in paragraph (2) of this Article
shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest:

is exempt from tax on such income in the Contracting State of which he
is a resident; and

(b) sells or makes a contract to sell the holding from which such
interest is derived within three months of the date such beneficial
owner acquired such holding.

(11) The provisions of this Article shall not apply if it was the main
purpose or one of the main purposes of any person concerned with the
creation or assignment of the debt-claim in respect of which the
interest is paid to take advantage of this Article by means of that
creation or assignment.

ARTICLE 13 Royalties and Fees for Technical Services

Royalties and fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State
and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in
that other State.

(2) However, such royalties and fees for technical services may also be
taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise and according to the
law of that State; but if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees
for technical services is a resident of the other Contracting State, the
tax so charged shall not exceed:

in the case of royalties within paragraph (3)(a) of this Article, and
fees for technical services within paragraph (4)(a) and (c) of this
Article;

during the first five years for which this Convention has effect;

(aa) 15 per cent of the gross amount of such royalties or fees for
technical services when the payer of the royalties or fees for technical
services is the Government of the first-mentioned Contracting State or a
political subdivision of that State, and

(bb) 20 per cent of the gross amount of such royalties or fees for
technical services in all other cases; and

(ii) during subsequent years, 15 per cent of the gross amount of such
royalties or fees for technical services;

and

(b) in the case of royalties within paragraph (3)(b) of this Article and
fees for technical services defined in paragraph (4)(b) of this Article,
10 per cent of the gross amount of such royalties and fees for technical
services.

(3) For the purposes of this Article, the term "royalties" means:

payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or the
right to use, any copyright of a literary, artistic or scientific work,
including cinematograph films or work on films, tape or other means of
reproduction for use in connection with radio or television
broadcasting, any patent, trademark, design or model, plan, secret
formula or process, or for information concerning industrial, commercial
or scientific experience; and

(b) payments of any kind received as consideration for the use of, or
the right to use, any industrial, commercial or scientific equipment,
other than income derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from
the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic.

(4) For the purposes of paragraph (2) of this Article, and subject to
paragraph (5), of this Article, the term "fees for technical services"
means payments of any kind to any person in consideration for the
rendering of any technical or consultancy services (including the
provisions of services of technical or other personnel) which:

are ancillary and subsidiary to the application or enjoyment of the
right, property or information for which a payment described in
paragraph (3)(a) of this Article is received; or

(b) are ancillary and subsidiary to the enjoyment of the property for
which a payment described in paragraph (3)(b) of this Article is
received; or

(c) make available technical knowledge, experience, skill, know-how or
processes, or consist of the development and transfer of a technical
plan or technical design.

(5) The definitions of fees for technical services in paragraph (4) of
this Article shall not include amounts paid:

for services that are ancillary and subsidiary, as well as inextricably
and essentially linked, to the sale of property, other than property
described in paragraph (3)(a) of this Article;

(b) for services that are ancillary and subsidiary to the rental of
ships, aircraft, containers or other equipment used in connection with
the operation of ships, or aircraft in international traffic;

(c) for teaching in or by educational institutions;

(d) for services for the private use of the individual or individuals
making the payment; or

(e) to an employee of the person making the payments or to any
individual or partnership for professional services as defined Article
15 (Independent personal services) of this Convention.

(6) The provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Article shall not
apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical
services, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business
in the other Contracting State in which the royalties or fees for
technical services arise through a permanent establishment situated
therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services
from a fixed base situated therein, and the right, property or contract
in respect of which the royalties or fees for technical services are
paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed
base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7 (Business profits) or
Article 15 (Independent personal services) of this Convention, as the
case may be, shall apply.

(7) Royalties and fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise
in a Contracting State where the payer is that State itself, a political
subdivision, a local authority or a resident of that State. Where,
however, the person paying the royalties or fees for technical services,
whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a
Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in
connection with which the obligation to make payments was incurred and
the payments are borne by that permanent establishment or fixed base,
then the royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to
arise in the Contracting State in which the permanent establishment or
fixed base is situated.

(8) Where, owing to a special relationship between the payer and the
beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the
amount of the royalties or fees for technical services paid exceeds for
whatever reason the amount which would have been paid in the absence of
such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to
the last-mentioned amount. In that case, the excess part of the payments
shall remain taxable according to the law of each Contracting State, due
regard being had to the other provisions of this Convention.

(9) The provisions of this Article shall not apply if it was the main
purpose or one of the main purposes of any person concerned with the
creation or assignment of the rights in respect of which the royalties
or fees for technical services are paid to take advantage of this
Article by means of that creation or assignment.

ARTICLE 14 Capital Gains

Except as provided in Article 8 (Air transport) and 9 (Shipping) of this
Convention, each Contracting State may tax capital gains in accordance
with the provisions of its domestic law.

ARTICLE 15 Independent Personal Services

Income derived by an individual, whether in his own capacity or as a
member of a partnership, who is a resident of a Contracting State in
respect of professional services or other independent activities of a
similar character may be taxed in that State. Such income may also be
taxed in the other Contracting State if such services are performed in
that other State and if:

he is present in that other State for a period or periods aggregating 90
days in the relevant fiscal year; or

(b) he, or the partnership, has a fixed base regularly available to him,
or it, in that other State for the purpose of performing his activities;

but in each case only so much of the income as is attributable to those
services.

(2) For the purposes of paragraph (1) of this Article an individual who
is a member of a partnership shall be regarded as being present in the
other State during days on which, although he is not present, another
individual member of the partnership is so present and performs
professional services or other independent activities of a similar
character in that State.

(3) The term "professional services" includes independent scientific,
literary, artistic, educational or teaching activities as well as the
independent activities of physicians, surgeons, lawyers, engineers,
architects, dentists and accountants.

ARTICLE 16 Dependent Personal Services

Subject to the provisions of Articles 17 (Directors' fees), 18 (Artistes
and athletes), 19 (Governmental remuneration and pensions), 20 (Pensions
and annuities), 21 (Students and trainees) and 22 (Teachers) of this
Convention, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a
resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be
taxable only in that State unless the employment is exercised in the
other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such
remuneration as is derived therefrom may be taxed in that other State.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article,
remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of
an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall not be
taxed in that other State if:

he is present in that other State for a period or periods not exceeding
in the aggregate 183 days during the relevant fiscal year;

(b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not
a resident of that other State; and

(c) the remuneration is not deductible in computing the profits of an
enterprise chargeable to tax in that other State.

(3) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article,
remuneration in respect of an employment exercised aboard a ship or
aircraft in international traffic may be taxed in the Contracting State
of which the person deriving the profits from the operation of the ship
or aircraft is a resident.

ARTICLE 17 Directors' Fees

Directors' fees and similar payments derived by a resident of a
Contracting State in his capacity as a member of the board of directors
of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be
taxed in that other State.

ARTICLE 18 Artistes and Athletes

Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 15 (Independent personal
services) and 16 (Dependent personal services) of this Convention,
income derived by entertainers (such as stage, motion picture, radio or
television artistes and musicians) or athletes, from their personal
activities as such may be taxed in the Contracting State in which these
activities are exercised.

(2) Where income arising from personal activities as such exercised in a
Contracting State by an entertainer or athlete accrues not to that
entertainer or athlete himself but to another person, that income may,
notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 7 (Business profits), 15
(Independent personal services) and 16 (Dependent personal services) of
this Convention, be taxed in that Contracting State.

(3) The provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Article shall not
apply if the visit to a Contracting State of the entertainer or the
athlete is directly or indirectly supported, wholly or substantially,
from the public funds of the other Contracting State, including a
political subdivision or local authority of that other State.

ARTICLE 19 Governmental Remuneration and Pensions

Remuneration, other than a pension, paid by the Government of a
Contracting State to any individual who is a national of that State in
respect of services rendered in the discharge of governmental functions
in the other Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in that other
Contracting State.

(2) Any pension paid by the Government of a Contracting State to any
individual in respect of services rendered to that Government shall be
taxable only in that Contracting State.

(3) The provisions of this Article shall not apply to remuneration or
pensions in respect of services rendered in connection with any trade or
business.

ARTICLE 20 Pensions and Annuities

Any pension, other than a pension referred to in Article 19(2) of this
Convention, or annuity paid to a resident of a Contracting State shall
be taxable only in that State.

(2) The term "pension" means a periodic payment made in consideration of
past employment or by way of compensation for injuries received in the
course of performance of employment or any payments made under the
social security legislation of either Contracting State.

(3) The term "annuity" means a stated sum payable periodically at stated
times during life or during a specified or ascertainable period of time
under an obligation to make the payments in return for adequate and full
consideration in money or money's worth.

ARTICLE 21 Students and Trainees

An individual who is a resident of a Contracting State or was a resident
of that State immediately before visiting the other Contracting State
and who is temporarily present in that other State for the primary
purpose of:

studying at a university or other accredited or recognised educational
institution in that other Contracting State; or

(b) securing training required to qualify him to practise a profession
or a professional speciality; or

(c) studying or doing research as a recipient of a grant, allowance, or
award from a governmental, religious, charitable, scientific, literary
or educational organisation;

shall not be subject to tax by that other Contracting State in respect
of:

gifts from abroad for the purposes of his maintenance, education, study,
research or training;

(ii) the grant, allowance or award; and

(iii) income from personal services rendered in that other Contracting
State (other than any rendered by an article clerk or other person
undergoing professional training to the person or partnership to whom he
is articled or who is providing the training) not exceeding the sum of
750 pounds sterling or its equivalent in Indian currency during any
fiscal year.

(2) The exemptions under paragraph (1) of this Article shall only extend
for such period of time as may be reasonably or customarily required for
the purpose of the visit, but in no event shall any individual have the
benefit of paragraph (1) of this Article for more than 5 years.

(3) An individual who is a resident of a Contracting State or was a
resident of that State immediately before visiting the other Contracting
State and who is temporarily present in that other State for a period
not exceeding 12 months, as an employee of, or under contract with, a
resident of the first-mentioned Contracting State, for the primary
purpose of:

acquiring technical, professional or business experience from a person
other than that resident of the first-mentioned Contracting State; or

(b) studying at a university or other accredited or recognised
institution in that other Contracting State;

shall not be subject to tax by that other Contracting State on his
income from personal services performed in the other Contracting State
for that period in an amount not exceeding 1,500 pounds sterling or its
equivalent in Indian currency.

(4) An individual who is a resident of a Contracting State or was a
resident of that State immediately before visiting the other Contracting
State and who is temporarily present in that other State for a period
not exceeding 12 months as a participant in a programme sponsored by the
Government of the other Contracting State, for the primary purpose of
training, research or study, shall not be subject to tax by that other
Contracting State in respect of payments made by the Government of the
first-mentioned Contracting State for the purposes of his maintenance,
training, research, or study.

ARTICLE 22 Teachers

An individual who visits a Contracting State for a period not exceeding
two years for the purpose of teaching or engaging in research at a
university, college or other recognised educational institution in that
State, and who was immediately before that visit a resident of the other
Contracting State, shall be exempted from tax by the first-mentioned
Contracting State on any remuneration for such teaching or research for
a period not exceeding two years from the date he first visits that
State for such purpose.

(2) This Article shall only apply to income from research if such
research is undertaken by the individual in the public interest and not
primarily for the benefit of some other private person or persons.

ARTICLE 23 Other Income

Subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) of this Article, items of
income beneficially owned by a resident of a Contracting State, wherever
arising, other than income paid out of trusts or the estates of deceased
persons in the course of administration, which are not dealt with in the
foregoing Articles of this Convention, shall be taxable only in that
State.

(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) shall not apply to income, other
than income from immovable property as defined in paragraph (2) of
Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State
through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that
other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
therein, and the right or property in respect of which the income is
paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed
base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7 or Article 15 of this
Convention, as the case may be, shall apply.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this
Article, items of income of a resident of a Contracting State not dealt
with in the foregoing articles of this Convention, and arising in the
other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.

ARTICLE 24 Elimination of Double Taxation

Subject to the provisions of the law of the United Kingdom regarding the
allowance as a credit against United Kingdom tax of tax payable in a
territory outside the United Kingdom (which shall not affect the general
principle hereof):

Indian tax payable under the laws of India and in accordance with the
provisions of this Convention, whether directly or by deduction, on
profits, income or chargeable gains from sources within India
(excluding, in the case of a dividend, tax payable in respect of the
profits out of which the dividend is paid) shall be allowed as a credit
against any United Kingdom tax computed by reference to the same
profits, income or chargeable gains by reference to which the Indian tax
is computed.

(b) In the case of a dividend paid by a company which is a resident of
India to a company which is a resident of the United Kingdom and which
controls directly or indirectly at least 10 per cent of the voting power
in the company paying the dividend, the credit shall take into account
(in addition to any Indian tax for which credit may be allowed under the
provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph) the Indian tax
payable by the company in respect of the profits out of which such
dividend is paid.

(2) Subject to the provisions of the law of India regarding the
allowance as a credit against Indian tax of tax paid in a territory
outside India (which shall not affect the general principle hereof), the
amount of the United Kingdom tax paid, under the laws of the United
Kingdom and in accordance with the provisions of this Convention,
whether directly or by deduction, by a resident of India, in respect of
income from sources within the United Kingdom which has been subjected
to tax both in India and the United Kingdom shall be allowed as a credit
against the Indian tax payable in respect of such income but in an
amount not exceeding that proportion of Indian tax which such income
bears to the entire income chargeable to Indian tax.

For the purposes of the credit referred to in this paragraph, where the
resident of India is a company by which surtax is payable, the credit to
be allowed against Indian tax shall be allowed in the first instance
against the income tax payable by the company in India and, as to the
balance, if any, against the surtax payable by it in India.

(3) Subject to paragraph (5) of this Article, for the purposes of
paragraph (1) of this Article the term "Indian tax payable" shall be
deemed to include:

any amount which would have been payable as Indian tax but for a
deduction allowed in computing the taxable income or an exemption or
reduction of tax granted for that year in question under the provisions
of the Income-tax Act 1961 (43 of 1961) referred to in paragraph (4)(a)
or (b) of this Article;

(b) that proportion of any amount which would have been payable as
Indian tax by a resident of India but for a deduction allowed in
computing the taxable income or an exemption or reduction granted for
the year in question under the provisions of the Income-tax Act 1961 (43
of 1961) referred to in paragraph (4)(c) of this Article which
corresponds to the proportion of that resident's total production in
that year which was actually sold in the Indian Domestic Tariff Area
under Orders issued by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports
bearing Nos. 21/90-93, 22/90-93, 23/90-93, 25/90-93, 26/90-93, 27/90-93
dated 30th March 1990 and similar Orders from time to time published in
the Official Gazette by the Central Government under power conferred to
it by Section 3 of the Import and Export (Control) Act, 1947 (18 of
1947).

(4) The provisions referred to in this paragraph are:

sections 10(4), 10(4B), 10(6)(viia), 10(15)(iv), 33AB, 80HHD, 80I and
80IA;

(b) any other provision which may subsequently be enacted granting an
exemption or reduction from tax which is agreed by the competent
authorities of the Contracting States to be of a substantially similar
character to a provision referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this
paragraph, if it has not been modified thereafter or has been modified
only in minor respects so as not to affect its general character;

(c) sections 10A and 10B.

(5) Relief from United Kingdom tax shall not be given by virtue of this
paragraph (3) of this Article in respect of income from any source if
the income relates to a period starting more than 10 fiscal years after
the deduction in computing taxable income or exemption from, or
reduction of, Indian tax is first granted to the resident of the United
Kingdom or to the resident of India, as the case may be, in respect of
that source.

(6) Income which in accordance with the provisions of this Convention is
not to be subjected to tax in a Contracting State may be taken into
account for calculating the rate of tax to be imposed in that
Contracting State on other income.

(7) For the purposes of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Article profits,
income and chargeable gains owned by a resident of a Contracting State
which may be taxed in the other Contracting State in accordance with the
provisions of this Convention shall be deemed to arise from sources in
that other Contracting State.

ARTICLE 26 Non-Discrimination

The nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other
Contracting State to any taxation or any requirement connected therewith
which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which nationals of that other State in the same
circumstances are or may be subjected.

(2) The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a
Contracting State has in the other Contracting State shall not be less
favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on
enterprises of that other State carrying on the same activities in the
same circumstances or under the same conditions. This provision shall
not be construed as preventing a Contracting State from charging the
profits of a permanent establishment which an enterprise of the other
Contracting State has in the first-mentioned State at a rate of tax
which is higher than that imposed on the profits of a similar enterprise
of the first-mentioned Contracting State, nor as being in conflict with
the provisions of paragraph (4) of Article 7 of this Convention.

(3) Nothing contained in this Article shall be construed as obliging a
Contracting State to grant to individuals not resident in that State any
personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for taxation purposes which
are by law available only to individuals who are so resident.

(4) Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly
or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by one or more
residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the
first-mentioned Contracting State to any taxation or any requirement
connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation
and connected requirements to which other similar enterprises of that
first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.

(5) In this Article, the term "taxation" means taxes which are the
subject of this Convention.

ARTICLE 27 Mutual Agreement Procedure

Where a resident of a Contracting State considers that the actions of
one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in
taxation not in accordance with this Convention, he may, notwithstanding
the remedies provided by the national laws of those States, present his
case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is
a resident.

(2) The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to
it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive at an
appropriate solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the
competent authority of the other Contracting State, with a view to the
avoidance of taxation not in accordance with the Convention.

(3) The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour
to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties or doubts arising as to
the interpretation or application of the Convention.

(4) The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate
with each other directly for the purpose of reaching an agreement in the
sense of the preceding paragraphs.

ARTICLE 28 Exchange of Information

The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such
information (including documents or certified copies of the documents)
as is foreseeably relevant for carrying out the provisions of this
Convention or to the administration or enforcement of the domestic laws
of the Contracting States concerning taxes of every kind and description
imposed on behalf of the Contracting States, or of their political
subdivisions or local authorities, insofar as the taxation thereunder is
not contrary to this Convention. The exchange of information is not
restricted by Articles 1 and 2 of this Convention.

(2) Any information received under paragraph 1 of this Article by a
Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner as
information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and shall be
disclosed only to persons or authorities (including courts and
administrative bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of,
the enforcement or prosecution in respect of, the determination of
appeals in relation to, the taxes referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Article, or the oversight of the above. Such persons or authorities
shall use the information only for such purposes. They may disclose the
information in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, information received by a Contracting
State may be used for other purposes when such information may be used
for such other purposes under the laws of both States and the competent
authority of the supplying State authorises such use.

(3) In no case shall the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this
Article be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the
obligation:

to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and
administrative practice of that or of the other Contracting State;

(b) to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in
the normal course of the administration of that or of the other
Contracting State;

(c) to supply information which would disclose any trade, business,
industrial, commercial or professional secret or trade process, or
information the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy.

(4) If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance
with this Article, the other Contracting State shall use its information
gathering measures to obtain the requested information, even though that
other State may not need such information for its own tax purposes. The
obligation contained in the preceding sentence is subject to the
limitations of paragraph 3 of this Article but in no case shall such
limitations be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to
supply information solely because it has no domestic interest in such
information.

(5) In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article be
construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply information
solely because the information is held by a bank, other financial
institution, nominee or person acting in an agency or a fiduciary
capacity or because it relates to ownership interests in a person.

ARTICLE 28A Tax Examinations Abroad

At the request of the competent authority of a Contracting State (the
requesting State), the competent authority of the other Contracting
State (the requested State) may allow representatives of the competent
authority of the requesting State to enter its territory to interview
individuals and examine records with the prior written consent of the
persons concerned. The competent authority of the requesting State shall
notify the competent authority of the requested State of the time and
place of the meeting with the individuals concerned.

(2) At the request of the competent authority of the requesting State,
the competent authority of the requested State may allow representatives
of the competent authority of the requesting State to be present at the
appropriate part of a tax examination in the territory of the requested
State.

(3) If the request referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article is acceded
to, the competent authority of the requested State conducting the
examination shall, as soon as possible, notify the competent authority
of the requesting State about the time and place of the examination, the
authority or official designated to carry out the examination and the
procedures and conditions required by the requested State for the
conduct of the examination. All decisions with respect to the conduct of
the tax examination shall be made by the requested State conducting the
examination.

ARTICLE 28B Assistance in the Collection of Taxes

The Contracting States shall lend assistance to each other in the
collection of revenue claims in respect of taxes covered by the
Convention. This assistance is not restricted by Article 1. The
competent authorities of the Contracting States may by mutual agreement
settle the mode of application of this Article.

(2) The term "revenue claim" as used in this Article means an amount
owed in respect of taxes covered by this Convention, insofar as the
taxation thereunder is not contrary to this Agreement or any other
instrument to which the Contracting States are parties, as well as
interest, administrative penalties and costs of collection or
conservancy related to such amount.

(3) When a revenue claim of a Contracting State is enforceable under the
laws of that State and is owed by a person who, at that time, cannot,
under the laws of that State, prevent its collection, that revenue claim
shall, at the request of the competent authority of that State, be
accepted for purposes of collection by the competent authority of the
other Contracting State. That revenue claim shall be collected by that
other State in accordance with the provisions of its laws applicable to
the enforcement and collection of its own taxes as if the revenue claim
were a revenue claim of that other State.

(4) When a revenue claim of a Contracting State is a claim in respect of
which that State may, under its law, take measures of conservancy with a
view to ensure its collection, that revenue claim shall, at the request
of the competent authority of that State, be accepted for purposes of
taking measures of conservancy by the competent authority of the other
Contracting State. That other State shall take measures of conservancy
in respect of that revenue claim in accordance with the provisions of
its laws as if the revenue claim were a revenue claim of that other
State even if, at the time when such measures are applied, the revenue
claim is not enforceable in the first-mentioned State or is owed by a
person who has a right to prevent its collection.

(5) When a Contracting State may, under its law, take interim measures
of conservancy by freezing of assets before a revenue claim is raised
against a person, the competent authority of the other Contracting
State, if requested by the competent authority of the first-mentioned
State, shall take measures for freezing the assets of that person in
that Contracting State in accordance with the provisions of its law.

(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4, a revenue
claim accepted by a Contracting State for purposes of paragraph 3 or 4
shall not, in that State, be subject to the time limits or accorded any
priority applicable to a revenue claim under the laws of that State by
reason of its nature as such. In addition, a revenue claim accepted by a
Contracting State for the purposes of paragraph 3 or 4 shall not, in
that State, have any priority applicable to that revenue claim under the
laws of the other Contracting State.

(7) Proceedings with respect to the existence, validity or the amount of
a revenue claim of a Contracting State shall not be brought before the
courts or administrative bodies of the other Contracting State.

(8) Where, at any time after a request has been made by a Contracting
State under paragraph 3 or 4 and before the other Contracting State has
collected and remitted the relevant revenue claim to the first-mentioned
State, the relevant revenue claim ceases to be:

in the case of a request under paragraph 3, a revenue claim of the
first-mentioned State that is enforceable under the laws of that State
and is owed by a person who, at that time, cannot, under the laws of
that State, prevent its collection, or

(b) in the case of a request under paragraph 4, a revenue claim of the
first-mentioned State in respect of which that State may, under its
laws, take measures of conservancy with a view to ensure its collection
the competent authority of the first-mentioned State shall promptly
notify the competent authority of the other State of that fact and, at
the option of the other State, the first-mentioned State shall either
suspend or withdraw its request.

(9) In no case shall the provisions of this Article be construed so as
to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:

to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and
administrative practice of that or of the other Contracting State;

(b) to carry out measures which would be contrary to public policy;

(c) to provide assistance if the other Contracting State has not pursued
all reasonable measures of collection or conservancy, as the case may
be, available under its laws or administrative practice;

(d) to provide assistance in those cases where the administrative burden
for that State is clearly disproportionate to the benefit to be derived
by the other Contracting State.

ARTICLE 28C Limitation of Benefits

Benefits of this Convention shall not be available to a resident of a
Contracting State, or with respect to any transaction undertaken by such
a resident, if the main purpose or one of the main purposes of the
creation or existence of such a resident or of the transaction
undertaken by him, was to obtain benefits under this Convention.

(2) Where by reason of this Article a resident of a Contracting State is
denied the benefits of this Convention in the other Contracting State,
the competent authority of that other Contracting State shall notify the
competent authority of the first-mentioned Contracting State.

ARTICLE 29 Diplomatic and Consular Officials

Nothing in this Convention shall affect the fiscal privileges of
diplomatic or consular officials under the general rules of
international law or under the provisions of special agreements.

(2) Nothwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) of Article 4
(Fiscal domicile) of this Convention, an individual who is a member of
the diplomatic, consular or permanent mission of a Contracting State
which is situated in the other Contracting State and who is subject to
tax in that other State only if he derives income from sources therein,
shall not be deemed to be a resident of that other State for the
purposes of this Convention.

ARTICLE 30 Entry Into Force

Each of the Contracting States shall notify to the other the completion
of the procedures required by its law for the bringing into force of
this Convention. This Convention shall enter into force on the date of
the later of these notifications and shall thereupon have effect:

in the United Kingdom:

in respect of income tax and capital gains tax, for any year of
assessment beginning on or after 6th April in the calendar year next
following that in which the later of the notifications is given;

(ii) in respect of corporation tax, for any financial year beginning on
or after 1st April in the calendar year next following that in which the
later of the notifications is given;

(iii) in respect of petroleum revenue tax, for any chargeable period
beginning on or after 1st January in the calendar year next following
that in which the later of the notifications is given;

(b) in India, in respect of income arising in any fiscal year beginning
on or after the first day of April next following the calendar year in
which the later of the notifications is given.

(2) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) of this Article, the
Convention between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland and the Government of India for the Avoidance of
Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to
Taxes on Income and Capital Gains signed in New Delhi on 16th April 1981
(hereinafter referred to as "the 1981 Convention") shall terminate and
cease to be effective from the date upon which this Convention has
effect in respect of the taxes to which this Convention applies in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article.

(3) Where any provisions of the 1981 Convention would have afforded any
greater relief from tax than is due under this Convention, any such
provision as aforesaid shall continue to have effect:

in the United Kingdom, for any year of assessment or financial year; and

(b) in India, for any fiscal year;

beginning, in either case, before the entry into force of this
Convention.

ARTICLE 31 Termination

This Convention shall remain in force until terminated by one of the
Contracting States. Either Contracting State may terminate the
Convention, through the diplomatic channel, by giving notice of
termination at least six months before the end of any calendar year
beginning after the expiration of ten years from the date of entry into
force of the Convention. In such event, the Convention shall cease to
have effect:

in the United Kingdom:

in respect of income tax and capital gains tax, for any year of
assessment beginning on or after 6th April in the calendar year next
following that in which the notice is given;

(ii) in respect of corporation tax, for any financial year beginning on
or after 1st April in the calendar year next following that in which the
notice is given;

(iii) in respect of petroleum revenue tax, for any chargeable period
beginning on or after 1st January in the calendar year next following
that in which the notice is given;

(b) in India, in respect of income arising in any fiscal year beginning
on or after the first day of April next following the calendar year in
which the notice is given.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, duly authorised thereto by their
respective Governments, have signed this Convention. DONE on this
twenty-fifth day of January 1993, in New Delhi on two original copies
each in the English and Hindi languages, both texts being equally
authentic. In case of divergence between the two texts, the English text
shall be the operative one.

For the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland: NICHOLAS FENN

For the Government of the Republic of India: S. RAMAMURTI

EXCHANGE OF NOTES

I. New Delhi, January 25, 1993

YOUR EXCELLENCY: I have the honour to refer to the Convention between
the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland and the Government of the Republic of India for the Avoidance of
Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to
Taxes on Income and Capital Gains which has been signed today and to
propose on behalf of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland:

that, in applying sub-paragraph (j) of paragraph (2) of Article 5, for
the purpose of determining whether a building site or construction,
installation or assembly project or supervisory activity in connection
therewith has continued for a period of more than six months, the
Contracting States shall:

take no account of time previously spent by employees of the enterprise
on other sites or projects which have no connection with the site or
project in question;

(ii) apply the more than six months test to each site or project which
has no connection with any other site or project and to each group of
connected sites or projects; and

(iii) regard a building site as a single site, even if several contracts
have been entered into for the work being done, provided that it forms a
coherent whole commercially and geographically;

(b) that, in applying paragraph (3) of Article 7, for the purpose of
determining whether a permanent establishment has taken an active part
in negotiating, concluding or fulfilling contracts entered into by the
enterprise, the Contracting States shall take into consideration all
relevant circumstances and, in particular, the fact that a contract or
order relating to the purchase or provision of goods or services was
negotiated or placed with the head office of the enterprise, rather than
with the permanent establishment, shall not preclude them from
determining that the permanent establishment did take an active part in
negotiating, concluding or fulfilling that contract;

(c) that, in applying paragraph (1) of Article 8, for the purpose of
determining the profits of an enterprise which are derived from the
operation of aircraft in international traffic, the Contracting States
shall treat interest derived from the investment or deposit of receipts
arising directly from the operation of aircraft in international traffic
as being included in those profits, but shall not treat interest derived
from the reinvestment of such interest as being so included.

If the foregoing proposal is acceptable to the Government of the
Republic of India I have the honour to suggest that the present Note and
Your Excellency's reply to that effect should be regarded as
constituting an agreement between the two Governments in this matter.

NICHOLAS FENN

II. New Delhi, January 25, 1993

YOUR EXCELLENCY: I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of Your
Excellency's Note of today which reads as follows:

[As in Note I.]

In reply, I have the honour to state that the Government of the Republic
of India accepts the proposal made therein and agrees that Your
Excellency's Note and the present reply shall constitute an agreement
between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in this matter.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the
assurances of my highest consideration.

S. RAMAMURTI

AGREEMENT, SHIPPING/AIRCRAFT AGREEMENT, India and United States,
in-force (1976)

TREATY TYPE: SHIPPING/AIRCRAFT AGREEMENT

STATUS: IN-FORCE

SIGNING DATE: NOV 26, 1976 (Agreement)

ENTRY INTO FORCE DATE: NOV 26, 1976 (Agreement)

EFFECTIVE DATES: See Paragraph 4 of the Agreement.

SCOPE: BILATERAL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH (Official)

TO LINK TO ADDITIONAL OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS, CLICK HERE:

EXCHANGE OF NOTES

I. New Delhi, November 26, 1976

EXCELLENCY: I have the honour to refer to the conversations which were
recently conducted between representatives of the Government of the
United States of America and the representatives of the Government of
India relating to the possibility of concluding an agreement between the
two governments with a view to granting the international airlines of
the two countries exemption from tax on their earnings on the basis of
reciprocity, and to inform you that the Government of the United States
of America agrees as follows:

The Government of the United States of America shall, on the basis of
reciprocal exemption granted by the Government of India to citizens of
the United States of America and to corporations organized in the United
States of America, exclude from gross income and exempt from income tax
all earnings derived

by a corporation organized in India, or

(b) by an individual who is

a citizen of India and

(ii) a non-resident alien as to the United States of America from the
operation of aircraft in international traffic. For this purpose, the
term "operation of aircraft" shall mean the business of transportation
by air of persons, livestock, goods or mail, carried on by the owners or
lessees or charterers of aircraft, including the sale of tickets for
such transportation on behalf of other enterprises, the incidental lease
of aircraft and any other activity directly connected with such
transportation.

The exemption herein provided shall also apply in respect of
participation in pools of any kind regarding air transport.

For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that interest on funds
connected with the operation of aircraft in international traffic shall
be regarded as income from the operation of such aircraft.

(2) This agreement shall be applicable with respect to taxable years
beginning on or after the first day of January, 1976.

(3) Either of the two governments may terminate this agreement by giving
to the other government six months' prior notice of termination in
writing and, in such event, the agreement shall cease to be effective
for the taxable years beginning on or after the first day of January
next following the expiration of the six-month period.

(4) The Government of the United States of America will consider this
Note, together with your reply confirming that the Government of India
agrees to terms corresponding to those outlined above, as constituting
an agreement between the two governments, entering into force on the
date of your reply.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the
assurances of my highest consideration.

DAVID T. SCHNEIDER

II. New Delhi, November 26, 1976

EXCELLENCY: I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of Your
Excellency's Note of today's date which reads as follows:

[As in Note I.]

I have the honour to confirm that the Government of India agrees, on the
basis of reciprocity, to grant exemption from income tax and surtax on
income derived

by a corporation organized in the United States of America, or

(b) by an individual who is

a citizen of the United States of America and

(ii) non-resident in India from the operation of aircraft in
international traffic. The term "taxable year" in relation to India
shall mean "previous year" as defined in the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of
1961).

I have further the honour to confirm on behalf of the Government of
India the understandings outlined in Your Excellency's Note and to agree
that Your Excellency's Note and my reply thereto shall constitute an
agreement between the two governments.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the
assurances of my highest consideration.

S. R. MEHTA

III. New Delhi, December 27, 1976

DEAR MR. MEHTA: On November 26, 1976, we exchanged letters concerning a
reciprocal airline tax exemption. In this connection the text of the
U.S. note does not make a specific reference to the aircraft
registration requirement contained in Sections 872 (b)(2) and 883 (a)(2)
of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, though it had
been intended that these requirements be covered by the note.

For this reason we wish, by this letter, to confirm the U.S. statutory
requirement that the aircraft, income from the operation of which is
exempt from U.S. income tax, be registered in India, which grants an
equivalent exemption to U.S. corporations and to U.S. citizens
non-resident in India in respect of income from the operation of
aircraft registered in the United States.

I would be most grateful if you would kindly confirm this letter so as
to meet the statutory requirement of the U.S. Internal Code.

Sincerely,

DAVID T. SCHNEIDER

IV. New Delhi, December 29, 1976

DEAR MR. SCHNEIDER: This is to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated
December 27, 1976, regarding the agreement between the Government of
India and the Government of the United States of America for the
avoidance of double taxation of income of the international airlines of
the two countries and to confirm the text of your letter which reads as
follows:

[As in Note III.]

Yours sincerely, S. R. MEHTA

TREATY, INCOME, India and United States, in-force (1989)

TREATY TYPE: INCOME

STATUS: IN-FORCE

SIGNING DATE: SEP 12, 1989 (Treaty)

ENTRY INTO FORCE DATE: DEC 18, 1990 (Treaty)

EFFECTIVE DATES: See Article 30 of the Treaty.

SCOPE: BILATERAL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH (Official)

CONVENTION BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA FOR THE AVOIDANCE OF DOUBLE
TAXATION AND THE PREVENTION OF FISCAL EVASION WITH RESPECT TO TAXES ON
INCOME

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the
Republic of India, desiring to conclude a Convention for the avoidance
of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to
taxes on income, have agreed as follows:

ARTICLE 1 General Scope

This Convention shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both
of the Contracting States, except as otherwise provided in the
Convention.

(2) The Convention shall not restrict in any manner any exclusion,
exemption, deduction, credit, or other allowance now or here after
accorded:

by the laws of either Contracting State; or

(b) by any other agreement between the Contracting States; or

(3) Notwithstanding any provision of the Convention except paragraph 4,
a Contracting State may tax its residents (as determined under Article 4
(Residence)), and by reason of citizenship may tax its citizens, as if
the Convention had not come into effect. For this purpose, the term
"citizen" shall include a former citizen whose loss of citizenship had
as one of its principal purposes the avoidance of tax, but only for a
period of 10 years following such loss.

(4) The provisions of paragraph 3 shall not affect

the benefits conferred by a Contracting State under paragraph 2 of
Article 9 (Associated Enterprises), under paragraphs 2 and 6 of Article
20 (Private Pensions, Annuities, Alimony, and Child Support), and under
Articles 25 (Relief from Double Taxation), 26 (Nondiscrimination), and
27 (Mutual Agreement Procedure); and (b) the benefits conferred by a
Contracting State under Articles 19 (Remuneration and Pensions in
Respect of Government Service), 21 (Payments Received by Students and
Apprentices), 22 (Payments Received by Professors, Teachers and Research
Scholars) and 29 (Diplomatic Agents and Consul Officers), upon
individuals who are neither citizens of, nor have immigrant status in,
that State.

ARTICLE 2 Taxes Covered

The existing taxes to which this Convention shall apply are:

in the United States, the Federal income taxes imposed by the Internal
Revenue Code (but excluding the accumulated earnings tax, the personal
holding company tax, and social security taxes), and the excise taxes
imposed on insurance premiums paid to foreign insurers and with respect
to private foundations (hereinafter referred to as "United States tax");
provided, however, the Convention shall apply to the excise taxes
imposed on insurance premiums paid to foreign insurers only to the
extent that the risks covered by such premiums are not reinsured with a
person not entitled to exemption from such taxes under this or any other
Convention which applies to these taxes; and

(b) in India:

the income tax including any surcharge thereon, but excluding income tax
on undistributed income of companies, imposed under the Income-tax Act;
and

(ii) the surtax (hereinafter referred to as "Indian tax").

Taxes referred to in (a) and (b) above shall not include any amount
payable in respect of any default or omission in relation to the above
taxes or which represent a penalty imposed relating to those taxes.

(2) The Convention shall apply also to any identical or substantially
similar taxes which are imposed after the date of signature of the
Convention in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The
competent authorities of the Contracting States shall notify each other
of any significant changes which have been made in their respective
taxation laws and of any official published material concerning the
application of the Convention.

ARTICLE 3 General Definitions

In this Convention, unless the context otherwise requires:

the term "India" means the territory of India and includes the
territorial sea and airspace above it, as well as any other maritime
zone in which India has sovereign rights, other rights and
jurisdictions, according to the Indian law and in accordance with
international law;

(b) the term "United States", when used in a geographical sense means
all the territory of the United States of America, including its
territorial sea, in which the laws relating to United States tax are in
force, and all the area beyond its territorial sea, including the seabed
and subsoil thereof, over which the United States has jurisdiction in
accordance with international law and in which the laws relating to
United States tax are in force;

(c) the terms "a Contracting State" and "the other Contracting State"
mean India or the United States as the context requires;

(d) the term "tax" means Indian tax or United States tax, as the context
requires;

(e) the term "person" includes an individual, an estate, a trust, a
partnership, a company, any other body of persons, or other taxable
entity;

(f) the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity which is
treated as a company or body corporate for tax purposes;

(g) the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the
other Contracting State" mean respectively an enterprise carried on by a
resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a
resident of the other Contracting State;

(h) the term "competent authority" means, in the case of India, the
Central Government in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) or
their authorized representative, and in the case of the United States,
the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate;

the term "national" means any individual possessing the nationality or
citizenship of a Contracting State;

(j) the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or
aircraft operated by an enterprise of a Contracting State, except when
the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places within the other
Contracting State;

(k) the term "taxable year" in relation to Indian Tax means "previous
year" as defined in the Income-tax Act, 1961.

(2) As regards the application of the Convention by a Contracting State
any term not defined therein shall, unless the context otherwise
requires or the competent authorities agree to a common meaning pursuant
to the provisions of Article 27 (Mutual Agreement Procedure), have the
meaning which it has under the laws of that State concerning the taxes
to which the Convention applies.

ARTICLE 4 Residence

For the purposes of this Convention, the "resident of a Contracting
State" means any person who, under the laws of that State, is liable to
tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, citizenship, place of
management, place of incorporation, or any other criterion of a similar
nature, provided, however, that

this term does not include any person who is liable to tax in that State
in respect only of income from sources in that State; and

(b) in the case of income derived or paid by a partnership, estate, or
trust, this term applies only to the extent that the income derived by
such partnership, estate, or trust is subject to tax in that State as
the income of a resident, either in its hands or in the hands of its
partners or beneficiaries.

(2) Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1, an individual is a
resident of both Contracting States, then his status shall be determined
as follows:

he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which he has a
permanent home available to him; if he has a permanent home available to
him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State
with which his personal and economic relations are closer (centre of
vital interests);

(b) if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be
determined, or if he does not have a permanent home available to him in
either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the State in which
he has an habitual abode;

(c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he
shall be deemed to be a resident of the State of which he is a national;

(d) if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the
competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the
question by mutual agreement.

(3) Where, by reason of paragraph 1, a company is a resident of both
Contracting States, such company shall be considered to be outside the
scope of this Convention except for purposes of paragraph 2 of Article
10 (Dividends), Article 26 (Non-Discrimination), Article 27 (Mutual
Agreement Procedure), Article 28 (Exchange of Information and
Administrative Assistance) and Article 30 (Entry Into Force).

(4) Where, by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1, a person other
than an individual or a company is a resident of both Contracting
States, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle
the question by mutual agreement and determine the mode of application
of the Convention to such person.

ARTICLE 5 Permanent Establishment

For the purposes of this Convention, the term "permanent establishment"
means a fixed place of business through which the business of an
enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.

(2) The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:

a place of management;

(b) a branch;

(c) an office;

(d) a factory;

(e) a workshop;

(f) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry, or any other place of
extraction of natural resources;

(g) a warehouse, in relation to a person providing storage facilities
for others;

(h) a farm, plantation or other place where agriculture, forestry,
plantation or related activities are carried on;

a store or premises used as a sales outlet;

(j) an installation or structure used for the exploration or
exploitation of natural resources, but only if so used for a period of
more than 120 days in any twelve month period;

(k) a building site or construction, installation or assembly project or
supervisory activities in connection therewith, where such site, project
or activities (together with other such sites, projects or activities,
if any) continue for a period of more than 120 days in any twelve month
period;

(l) the furnishing of services, other than included services as defined
in Article 12 (Royalties and Fees for Included Services), within a
Contracting State by an enterprise through employees or other personnel,
but only if:

activities of that nature continue within that State for a period or
periods aggregating more than 90 days within any twelve month period; or

(ii) the services are performed within that State for a related
enterprise (within the meaning of paragraph 1 of Article 9 (Associated
Enterprises)).

(3) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term
"permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to include any one or more
of the following:

the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage, display, or
occasional delivery of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise;

(b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise solely for the purpose of storage, display, or occasional
delivery;

(c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by another enterprise;

(d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose
of purchasing goods or merchandise, or of collecting information, for
the enterprise;

(e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose
of advertising, for the supply of information, for scientific research
or for other activities which have a preparatory or auxiliary character,
for the enterprise.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a
personother than an agent of an independent status to whom paragraph 5
appliesis acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of
the other Contracting State, that enterprise shall be deemed to have a
permanent establishment in the first-mentioned State if:

he has an habitually exercises in the first-mentioned State an authority
to conclude contracts on behalf of the enterprise, unless his activities
are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 3 which, if exercised
through a fixed place of business, would not make that fixed place of
business a permanent establishment under the provisions of that
paragraph;

(b) he has no such authority but habitually maintains in the
first-mentioned State a stock of goods or merchandise from which he
regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise, and
some additional activities conducted in that State on behalf of the
enterprise have contributed to the sale of the goods or merchandise; or

(c) he habitually secures orders in the first-mentioned State, wholly or
almost wholly for the enterprise.

(5) An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to have a
permanent establishment in the other Contracting State merely because it
carries on business in that other State through a broker, general
commission agent, or any other agent of an independent status, provided
that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business.
However, when the activities of such an agent are devoted wholly or
almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise and the transactions between
the agent and the enterprise are not made under arm's-length conditions,
he shall not be considered an agent of independent status within the
meaning of this paragraph.

(6) The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State
controls or is controlled by a company which is a resident of the other
Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State
(whether through a permanent establishment or otherwise), shall not of
itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.

ARTICLE 6 Income From Immovable Property (Real Property)

Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable
property (real property), including income from agriculture or forestry,
situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
State.

(2) The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has
under the law of the Contracting State in which the property in question
is situated.

(3) The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to income derived
from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of immovable
property.

(4) The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income
from immovable property of an enterprise and to income from immovable
property used for the performance of independent personal services.

ARTICLE 7 Business Profits

The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable
only in that State unless the enterprise carries on business in the
other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated
therein. If the enterprise carries on business as aforesaid, the profits
of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of
them as is attributable to

that permanent establishment;

(b) sales in the other State of goods or merchandise of the same or
similar kind as those sold through that permanent establishment; or

(c) other business activities carried on in the other State of the same
or similar kind as those effected through that permanent establishment.

(2) Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a
Contracting State carries on business in the other Contracting State
through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each
Contracting State be attributed to that permanent establishment the
profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and
independent enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under
the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly at arm's-length with
the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment and other
enterprises controlling, controlled by or subject to the same common
control as that enterprise. In any case where the correct amount of
profits attributable to a permanent establishment is incapable of
determination or the determination thereof presents exceptional
difficulties, the profits attributable to the permanent establishment
may be estimated on a reasonable basis. The estimate adopted shall,
however, be such that the result shall be in accordance with the
principles contained in this Article.

(3) In the determination of the profits of a permanent establishment,
there shall be allowed as deductions, expenses which are incurred for
the purposes of the business of the permanent establishment, including a
reasonable allocation of executive and general administrative expenses,
research and development expenses, interest, and other expenses incurred
for the purposes of the enterprise as a whole (or the part thereof which
includes the permanent establishment), whether incurred in the State in
which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere, in
accordance with the provisions of and subject to the limitations of the
taxation laws of that State. However, no such deduction shall be allowed
in respect of amounts, if any, paid (otherwise than toward reimbursement
of actual expenses) by the permanent establishment to the head office of
the enterprise or any of its other offices, by way of royalties, fees or
other similar payments in return for the use of patents, know-how or
other rights, or by way of commission or other charges for specific
services performed or for management, or, except in the case of banking
enterprises, by way of interest on moneys lent to the permanent
establishment. Likewise, no account shall be taken, in the determination
of the profits of a permanent establishment, for amounts charged
(otherwise than toward reimbursement of actual expenses), by the
permanent establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of
its other offices, by way of royalties, fees or other similar payments
in return for the use of patents, know-how or other rights, or by way of
commission or other charges for specific services performed or for
management, or, except in the case of a banking enterprise, by way of
interest on moneys lent to the head office of the enterprise or any of
its other offices.

(4) No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by
reason of the mere purchase by that permanent establishment of goods or
merchandise for the enterprise.

(5) For the purposes of this Convention, the profits to be attributed to
the permanent establishment as provided in paragraph 1(a) of this
Article shall include only the profits derived from the assets and
activities of the permanent establishment and shall be determined by the
same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to
the contrary.

(6) Where profits include items of income which are dealt with
separately in other Articles of the Convention, then the provisions of
those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.

(7) For the purposes of the Convention, the term "business profits"
means income derived from any trade or business including income from
the furnishing of services other than included services as defined in
Article 12 (Royalties and Fees for Included Services) and including
income from the rental of tangible personal property other than property
described in paragraph 3(b) of Article 12 (Royalties and Fees for
Included Services).

ARTICLE 8 Shipping and Air Transport

Profits derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the
operation by that enterprise of ships or aircraft in international
traffic shall be taxable only in that State.

(2) For the purposes of this Article, profits from the operation of
ships or aircraft in international traffic shall mean profits derived by
an enterprise described in paragraph 1 from the transportation by sea or
air respectively of passengers, mail, livestock or goods carried on by
the owners or lessees or charterers of ships or aircraft including

the sale of tickets for such transportation on behalf of other
enterprises;

(b) other activity directly connected with such transportation; and

(c) the rental of ships or aircraft incidental to any activity directly
connected with such transportation.

(3) Profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State described in
paragraph 1 from the use, maintenance, or rental of containers
(including trailers, barges, and related equipment for the transport of
containers) used in connection with the operation of ships or aircraft
in international traffic shall be taxable only in that State.

(4) The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to profits
from participation in a pool, a joint business, or an international
operating agency.

(5) For the purposes of this Article, interest on funds connected with
the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall be
regarded as profits derived from the operation of such ships or
aircraft, and the provisions of Article 11 (Interest) shall not apply in
relation to such interest.

(6) Gains derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State described in
paragraph 1 from the alienation of ships, aircraft or containers owned
and operated by the enterprise, the income from which is taxable only in
that State, shall be taxed only in that State.

ARTICLE 9 Associated Enterprises

Where:

an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly
in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of the
Contracting State; or

(b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the
management, control, or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting State
and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,

and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two
enterprises in their commercial or financial relations which differ from
those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any
profits which, but for those conditions would have accrued to one of the
enterprises, but by reason of those conditions have not so accrued, may
be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.

(2) Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise
of that State, and taxes accordingly, profits on which an enterprise of
the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State,
and the profits so included are profits which would have accrued to the
enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between
the two enterprises had been those which would have been made between
independent enterprises, then that other State shall make an appropriate
adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In
determining such adjusting due regard shall be had to the other
provisions of this Convention and the competent authorities of the
Contracting State shall if necessary consult each other.

ARTICLE 10 Dividends

Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State
to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
State.

(2) However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State
of which the company paying the dividends is a resident, and according
to the laws of the State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividends
is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall
not exceed:

15 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends if the beneficial owner
is a company which owns at least 10 per cent of the voting stock of the
company paying the dividends;

(b) 25 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends in all other cases.

Subparagraph (b) and not subparagraph (a) shall apply in the case of
dividends paid by a United States person which is a Regulated Investment
Company. Subparagraph (a) shall not apply to dividends paid by a United
States person which is a Real Estate Investment Trust, and subparagraph
(b) shall only apply if the dividend is beneficially owned by an
individual holding a less than 10 per cent interest in the Real Estate
Investment Trust. This paragraph shall not effect the taxation of the
company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.

(3) The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from
shares or other rights not being debt-claims, participating in profits,
income from other corporate rights which are subjected to the same
taxation treatment as income from shares by the taxation laws of the
State of which the company making the distribution is a resident; and
income from arrangements, including debt obligations, carrying the right
to participate in profits, to the extent so characterized under the laws
of the Contracting State in which the income arises.

(4) The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the
beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a Contracting
State, carries on business in the other Contracting State, of which the
company paying the dividends is a resident, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed based situated therein, and
the dividends are attributable to such permanent establishment or fixed
base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 (Business Profits) or
Article 15 (Independent Personal Services), as the case may be, shall
apply.

(5) Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives
profits or income from the other Contracting State, that other State may
not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company except insofar
as such dividends are paid to a resident of that other State or insofar
as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in
that other State, nor subject the company's undistributed profits to a
tax on the company's undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid
or the undistributed profits consist wholly or partly of profits or
income arising in such other State.

ARTICLE 11 Interest

Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the
other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.

(2) However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in
which it arises, and according to the laws of that State, but if the
beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other Contracting
State, the tax so charged shall not exceed:

10 per cent of the gross amount of the interest if such interest is paid
on a loan granted by a bank carrying on a bona fide banking business or
by a similar financial institution (including an insurance company); and

(b) 15 per cent of the gross amount of the interest in all other cases.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article,
interest arising in a Contracting State:

and derived and beneficially owned by the Government of the other
Contracting State, a political subdivision or local authority thereof,
the Reserve Bank of India, or the Federal Reserve Banks of the United
States, as the case may be, and such other institutions of either
Contracting State as the competent authorities may agree pursuant to
Article 27 (Mutual Agreement Procedure);

(b) with respect to loans or credits extended or endorsed

by the Export-Import Bank of the United States, when India is the
firstmentioned Contracting State; and

(ii) by the EXIM Bank of India, when the United States is the
first-mentioned Contracting State; and

(c) to the extent approved by the Government of that State, and derived
and beneficially owned by any person, other than a person referred to in
subparagraphs (a) and (b), who is a resident of the other Contracting
State, provided that the transaction giving rise to the debtclaim has
been approved in this behalf by the Government of the first-mentioned
Contracting State;

shall be exempt from tax in the first-mentioned Contracting State.

(4) The term "interest" as used in this Convention means income from
debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by mortgage, and
whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits,
and in particular, income from government securities, and income from
bonds or debentures, including premiums or prizes attaching to such
securities, bonds, or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall
not be regarded as interest for the purposes of the Convention. However,
the term "interest" does not include income dealt with in Article 10
(Dividends).

(5) The provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 shall not apply if the
beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a Contracting
State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the
interest arises, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or
performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed
base situated therein, and the interest is attributable to such
permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of
Article 7 (Business Profits) or Article 15 (Independent Personal
Services), as the case may be, shall apply.

(6) Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the
payer is that State itself or a political subdivision, local authority,
or resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the
interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in
a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base, and such
interest is borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then
such interest shall be deemed to arise in the Contracting State in which
the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.

(7) Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the
beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the
amount of the interest, having regard to the debtclaim for which it is
paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer
and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the
provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned
amount. In such case the excess part of the payments shall remain
taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard
being had to the other provisions of the Convention.

ARTICLE 12 Royalties and Fees for Included Services

Royalties and fees for included services arising in a Contracting State
and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in
that other State.

(2) However, such royalties and fees for included services may also be
taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise and according to the
laws of that State; but if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees
for included services is a resident of the other Contracting State, the
tax so charged shall not exceed:

in the case of royalties referred to in subparagraph (a) of paragraph 3
and fees for included services as defined in this Article (other than
services described in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph):

during the first five taxable years for which this Convention has
effect, (A) 15 per cent of the gross amount of the royalties or fees for
included services as defined in this Article, where the payer of the
royalties or fees is the Government of that Contracting State, a
political subdivision or a public sector company; and (B) 20 per cent of
the gross amount of the royalties or fees for included services in all
other cases; and

(ii) during the subsequent years, 15 per cent of the gross amount of
royalties or fees for included services; and

(b) in the case of royalties referred to in subparagraph (b) of
paragraph 3 and fees for included services as defined in this Article
that are ancillary and subsidiary to the enjoyment of the property for
which payment is received under paragraph 3(b) of this Article, 10 per
cent of the gross amount of the royalties or fees for included services.

(3) The term "royalties" as used in this Article means:

payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or the
right to use, any copyright of a literary, artistic, or scientific work,
including cinematograph films or work on film, tape or other means of
reproduction for use in connection with radio or television
broadcasting, any patent, trademark, design or model, plan, secret
formula or process, or for information concerning industrial, commercial
or scientific experience, including gains derived from the alienation of
any such right or property which are contingent on the productivity,
use, or disposition thereof; and

(b) payments of any kind received as consideration for the use of, or
the right to use, any industrial, commercial, or scientific equipment,
other than payments derived by an enterprise described in paragraph 1 of
Article 8 (Shipping and Air Transport) from activities described in
paragraph 2(c) or 3 of Article 8.

(4) For purposes of this Article, "fees for included services" means
payments of any kind to any person in consideration for the rendering of
any technical or consultancy services (including through the provision
of services of technical or other personnel) if such services:

are ancillary and subsidiary to the application or enjoyment of the
right, property or information for which a payment described in
paragraph 3 is received; or

(b) make available technical knowledge, experience, skill, know-how, or
processes, or consist of the development and transfer of a technical
plan or technical design.

(5) Notwithstanding paragraph 4, "fees for included services" does not
include amounts paid:

for services that are ancillary and subsidiary, as well as inextricably
and essentially linked, to the sale of property other than a sale
described in paragraph 3(a);

(b) for services that are ancillary and subsidiary to the rental of
ships, aircraft, containers or other equipment used in connection with
the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic;

(c) for teaching in or by educational institutions;

(d) for services for the personal use of the individual or individuals
making the payment; or

(e) to an employee of the person making the payments or to any
individual or firm of individuals (other than a company) for
professional services as defined in Article 15 (Independent Personal
Services).

(6) The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the
beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for included services, being a
resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other
Contracting States, in which the royalties or fees for included services
arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs
in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base
situated therein, and the royalties or fees for included services are
attributable to such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case
the provisions of Article 7 (Business Profits) or Article 15
(Independent Personal Services), as the case may be, shall apply.

(7)

Royalties and fees for included services shall be deemed to arise in a
Contracting State when the payer is that State itself, a political
subdivision, a local authority, or a resident of that State. Where,
however, the person paying the royalties or fees for included services,
whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a
Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in
connection with which the liability to pay the royalties or fees for
included services was incurred, and such royalties or fees for included
services are borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then
such royalties or fees or included services shall be deemed to arise in
the Contracting State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base
is situated.

(b) Where under subparagraph (a) royalties or fees for included services
do not arise in one of the Contracting States, and the royalties relate
to the use of, or the right to use, the right or property, or the fees
for included services relate to services performed, in one of the
Contracting States, the royalties or fees for included services shall be
deemed to arise in that Contracting State.

(8) Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the
beneficial owner or between both of them. and some other person, the
amount of the royalties or fees for included services paid exceeds the
amount which would have been paid in the absence of such relationship,
the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned
amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain
taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard
being had to the other provisions of the Convention.

ARTICLE 13 Gains

Except as provided in Article 8 (Shipping and Air Transport) of this
Convention, each Contracting State may tax capital gain in accordance
with the provisions of its domestic law.

ARTICLE 14 Permanent Establishment Tax

A company which is a resident of India may be subject in the United
States to a tax in addition to the tax allowable under the other
provisions of this Convention.

Such tax, however, may be imposed only on:

the portion of the business profits of the company subject to tax in the
United States which represents the dividend equivalent amount; and

(ii) the excess, if any, of interest deductible in the United States in
computing the profits of the company that are subject to tax in the
United States and either attributable to a permanent establishment in
the United States or subject to tax in the United States under Article 6
(Income from Immovable Property (Real Property)), Article 12 (Royalties
and Fees for Included Services) as fees for included services, or
Article 13 (Gains) of this Convention over the interest paid by or from
the permanent establishment or trade or business in the United States.

(b) For purposes of this article, business profits means profits that
are effectively connected (or treated as effectively connected) with the
conduct of a trade or business within the United States and are either
attributable to a permanent establishment in the United States or
subject to tax in the United States under Article 6 (Income from
Immovable Property (Real Property)), Article 12 (Royalties and Fees for
Included Services) as fees for included services or Article 13 (Gains)
of this Convention.

(c) The tax referred to in subparagraph (a) shall not be imposed at a
rate exceeding:

the rate specified in paragraph 2(a) of Article 10 (Dividends) for the
tax described in subparagraph (a)(I); and

(ii) the rate specified in paragraph 2 (a) or (b)(whichever is
appropriate) of Article 11 (Interest) for the tax described in
subparagraph (a)(ii).

(2) A company which is a resident of the United States may be subject to
tax in India at a rate higher than that applicable to the domestic
companies. The difference in the tax rate shall not, however, exceed the
existing difference of 15 per centage points.

(3) In the case of a banking company which is a resident of the United
States, the interest paid by the permanent establishment of such a
company in India to the head office may be subject in India to a tax in
addition to the tax imposable under the other provisions of this
Convention at a rate which shall not exceed the rate specified in
paragraph 2(a) of Article 11 (Interest).

ARTICLE 15 Independent Personal Services

Income derived by a person who is an individual or firm of individuals
(other than a company) who is a resident of a Contracting State from,
the performance in the other Contracting State of professional services
or other independent activities of a similar character shall be taxable
only in the first-mentioned State except in the following circumstances
when such income may also be taxed in the other Contracting State:

if such person has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other
Contracting State for the purpose of performing his activities; in that
case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base
may be taxed in that other State; or

(b) if the person's stay in the other Contracting State is for a period
or periods amounting to or exceeding in the aggregate 90 days in the
relevant taxable year.

(2) The term "professional services" includes independent scientific,
literary, artistic, educational or teaching activities as well as the
independent activities of physicians, surgeons, lawyers, engineers,
architects, dentists and accountants.

ARTICLE 16 Dependent Personal Services

Subject to the provisions of Articles 17 (Directors' Fees), 18 (Income
Earned by Entertainers and Athletes), 19 (Remuneration and Pensions in
Respect of Government Service), 20 (Private Pensions, Annuities,
Alimony, and Child Support), 21 (Payments Received by Students and
Apprentices) and 22 (Payments Received by Professors, Teachers and
Research Scholars), salaries, wages, and other similar remuneration
derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment
shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is exercised
in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such
remuneration as is derived therefrom may be taxed in that other State.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived
by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment
exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the
first-mentioned State if:

the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not
exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in the relevant taxable year;

(b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not
a resident of the other State; and

(c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a
fixed base or a trade or business which the employer has in the other
State.

(3) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article,
remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised aboard a ship
or aircraft operated in international traffic by an enterprise of a
Contracting State may be taxed in that State.

ARTICLE 17 Directors' Fees

Directors' fees and similar payments derived by a resident of a
Contracting State in his capacity as a member of the board of directors
of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be
taxed in that other State.

ARTICLE 18 Income Earned by Entertainers and Athletes

Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 15 (Independent Personal
Services) and 16 (Dependent Personal Services), income derived by a
resident of a Contracting State as an entertainer, such as a theatre,
motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as an
athlete, from his personal activities as such exercised in the other
Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State, except where the
amount of the net income derived by such entertainer or athlete from
such activities (after deduction of all expense incurred by him in
connection with his visit and performance) does not exceed one thousand
five hundred United States dollars ($1,500) or its equivalent Indian
rupees for the taxable year concerned.

(2) Where income in respect of activities exercised by an entertainer or
an athlete in his capacity as such accrues not to the entertainer or
athlete but to another person, that income of that other person may,
notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 7 (Business Profits), 15
(Independent Personal Services) and 16 (Dependent Personal Services), be
taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the
entertainer or athlete are exercised unless the entertainer, athlete, or
other person establishes that neither the entertainer or athlete nor
persons related thereto participate directly or indirectly in the
profits of that other person in any manner, including the receipt of
deferred remuneration, bonuses, fees, dividends, partnership
distributions, or other distributions.

(3) Income referred to in the preceding paragraphs of this Article
derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of activities
exercised in the other Contracting State shall not be taxed in that
other State if the visit of the entertainers or athletes to that other
State is supported wholly or substantially from the public funds of the
Government of the first-mentioned Contracting State, or of a political
subdivision or local authority thereof.

(4) The competent authorities of the Contracting States may, by mutual
agreement, increase the dollar amounts referred to in paragraph 1 to
reflect economic or monetary developments.

ARTICLE 19 Remuneration and Pensions in Respect of Government Service

Remuneration, other than a pension, paid by a Contracting State or a
political subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in
respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority
shall be taxable only in that State.

(b) However, such remuneration shall be taxable only in the other
Contracting State if the services are rendered in that other State and
the individual is a resident of that State who:

is a national of that State; or

(ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of
rendering the services.

(2)

Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or
a political subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in
respect of services rendered to that state or subdivision or authority
shall be taxable only in that State.

(b) However, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting
State if the individual is a resident of, and a national of, that State.

(3) The provisions of Articles 16 (Dependent Personal Services), 17
(Directors' Fees), 18 (Income Earned by Entertainers and Athletes) and
20 (Private Pensions, Annuities, Alimony and Child Support) shall apply
to remuneration and pensions in respect of services rendered in
connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a
political subdivision or a local authority thereof.

ARTICLE 20 Private Pensions, Annuities, Alimony and Child Support

Any pension, other than a pension referred to in Article 19
(Remuneration and Pensions in Respect of Government Service), or any
annuity derived by a resident of a Contracting State from sources within
the other Contracting State may be taxed only in the first-mentioned
Contracting State.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph 1, and subject to the provisions of
Article 19 (Remuneration and Pensions in Respect of Government Service),
social security benefits and other public pensions paid by a Contracting
State to a resident of the other Contracting State or a citizen of the
United States shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State.

(3) The term "pension" means a periodic payment made in consideration of
past services or by way or compensation for injuries received in the
course of performance of services.

(4) The term "annuity" means stated sums payable periodically at stated
times during life or during a specified or ascertainable number of
years, under an obligation to make the payments in return for adequate
and full consideration in money or money's worth (but not for services
rendered).

(5) Alimony paid to a resident of a Contracting State shall be taxable
only in that State. The term "alimony" as used in this paragraph means
periodic payments made pursuant to a written separation agreement or a
decree of divorce, separate maintenance, or compulsory support, which
payments are taxable to the recipient under the laws of the State of
which he is a resident.

(6) Periodic payments for the support of a minor child made pursuant to
a written separation agreement or a decree of divorce, separate
maintenance or compulsory support, paid by a resident of a Contracting
State to a resident of the other Contracting State, shall be taxable
only in the first-mentioned State.

ARTICLE 21 Payments Received by Students and Apprentices

A student or business apprentice who is or was a resident of one of the
Contracting States immediately before visiting the other Contracting
State and who is present in that other State principally for the purpose
of his education or training shall be exempt from tax in that other
State, on payments which arise outside that other State for the purposes
of his maintenance, education or training.

(2) In respect of grants, scholarships and remuneration from employment
not covered by paragraph 1, a student or business apprentice described
in paragraph 1 shall, in addition, be entitled during such education or
training to the same exemptions, reliefs or reductions in respect of
taxes available to residents of the State which he is visiting.

(3) The benefits of this Article shall extend only for such period of
time as may be reasonable or customarily required to complete the
education or training undertaken.

(4) For the purposes of this Article, an individual shall be deemed to
be a resident of a Contracting State if he is resident in that
Contracting State in the taxable year in which he visits the other
Contracting State or in the immediately proceeding taxable year.

ARTICLE 22 Payments Received by Professors, Teachers and Research
Scholars

An individual who visits a Contracting State for a period not exceeding
two years for the purpose of teaching or engaging in research at a
university, college or other recognized educational institution in that
State, and who was immediately before that visit a resident of the other
Contracting State, shall be exempted from tax by the first-mentioned
Contracting State on any remuneration for such teaching or research for
a period not exceeding two years from the date he first visits that
State for such purpose.

(2) This Article shall apply to income from research only if such
research is undertaken by the individual in the public interest and not
primarily for the benefit of some other private person or persons.

ARTICLE 23 Other Income

Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2, items of income of a resident
of a Contracting State, wherever arising, which are not expressly dealt
with in the foregoing Articles of this Convention shall be taxable only
in that Contracting State.

(2) The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than
income from immovable property as defined in paragraph 2 of Article 6
(Income from Immovable Property (Real Property)), if the beneficial
owner of the income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on
business in the other Contracting State through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and
the income is attributable to such permanent establishment or fixed
base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 (Business Profits) or
Article 15 (Independent Personal Services), as the case may be, shall
apply.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, items of
income of a resident of a Contracting State not dealt with in the
foregoing articles of this Convention and arising in the other
Contracting State may also be taxed in that other State.

ARTICLE 24 Limitation on Benefits

A person (other than an individual) which is a resident of a Contracting
State and derives income from the other Contracting State shall be
entitled under this Convention to relief from taxation in that other
Contracting State only if:

more than 50 per cent of the beneficial interest in such person (or in
the case of a company, more than 50 per cent of the number of shares of
each class of the company's shares) is owned, directly or indirectly, by
one or more individual residents of one of the Contracting States, one
of the Contracting States or its political subdivisions or local
authorities, or other individuals subject to tax in either Contracting
State or their worldwide incomes, or citizens of the United States; and

(b) the income of such person is not used in substantial part, directly
or indirectly, to meet liabilities (including liabilities for interest
or royalties) to persons who are not residents of one of the Contracting
States, one of the Contracting States or its political subdivisions or
local authorities, or citizens of the United States.

(2) The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply if the income derived
from the other Contracting State is derived in connection with, or is
incidental to, the active conduct by such person of a trade or business
in the first-mentioned State (other than the business of making or
managing investments, unless these activities are banking or insurance
activities carried on by a bank or insurance company).

(3) The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply if the person deriving
the income is a company which is a resident of a Contracting State in
whose principal class of shares there is substantial and regular trading
on a recognized stock exchange. For purposes of the preceding sentence,
the term "recognized stock exchange" means:

in the case of the United States, the NASDAQ System owned by the
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and any stock exchange
registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a national
securities exchange for purposes of the Securities Act of 1934;

(b) in the case of India, any stock exchange which is recognized by the
Central Government under the Securities Contracts Regulation Act, 1956;
and

(c) any other stock exchange agreed upon by the competent authorities of
the Contracting States.

(4) A person that is not entitled to the benefits of this Convention
pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraphs of this Article
may, nevertheless, be granted the benefits of the Convention if the
competent authority of the State in which the income in question arises
so determines.

ARTICLE 25 Relief From Double Taxation

In accordance with the provisions and subject to the limitations of the
law of the United States (as it may be amended from time to time without
changing the general principle hereof), the United States shall allow to
a resident or citizen of the United States as a credit against the
United States tax on income:

the income tax paid to India by or on behalf of such citizen or
resident; and

(b) in the case of a United States company owning at least 10 per cent
of the voting stock of a company which is a resident of India and from
which the United States company receives dividends, the income tax paid
to India by or on behalf of the distributing company with respect to the
profits out of which the dividends are paid.

For the purposes of this paragraph, the taxes referred to in paragraphs
1(b) and 2 of Article 2 (Taxes Covered) shall be considered income
taxes.

(2)

Where a resident of India derives income which, in accordance with the
provisions of this Convention, may be taxed in the United States, India
shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident
an amount equal to the income tax paid in the United States, whether
directly or by deduction. Such deduction shall not, however, exceed that
part of the income tax (as computed before the deduction is given) which
is attributable to the income which may be taxed in the United States.

(b) Further, where such resident is a company by which a surtax is
payable in India, the deduction in respect of income tax paid in the
United States shall be allowed in the first instance from income tax
payable by the company in India and as to the balance, if any, from
surtax payable by it in India.

(3) For the purposes of allowing relief from double taxation pursuant to
this Article, income shall be deemed to arise as follows:

income derived by a resident of a Contracting State which may be taxed
in the other Contracting State in accordance with this Convention (other
than solely by reason of citizenship in accordance with paragraph 3 of
Article 1 (General Scope)) shall be deemed to arise in that other State

(b) income derived by a resident of a Contracting State which may not be
taxed in the other Contracting State in accordance with the Convention
shall be deemed to arise in the firstmentioned State.

Notwithstanding the proceeding sentence, the determination of the source
of income for purposes of this Article shall be subject to such source
rules in the domestic laws of the Contracting States as apply for the
purpose of limiting the foreign tax credit. The preceding sentence shall
not apply with respect to income dealt with in Article 12 (Royalties and
Fees for Included Services). The rules of this paragraph shall not apply
in determining credits against United States tax for foreign taxes other
than the taxes referred to in paragraphs 1(b) and 2 of Article 2 (Taxes
Covered).

ARTICLE 26 Non-Discrimination

Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other
Contracting State to any taxation or any requirement connected therewith
which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which nationals of that other State in the same
circumstances are or may be subjected. This provision shall apply to
persons who are not residents of one or both of the Contracting States.

(2) Except where the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 7 (Business
Profits) apply, the taxation on a permanent establishment which an
enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State
shall not be less favorably levied in that other State than the taxation
levied on enterprises of that other State carrying on the same
activities. This provision shall not be construed as obliging a
Contracting State to grant to residents of the other Contracting State
any personal allowances, reliefs, and reductions for taxation purposes
on account of civil status or family responsibilities which it grants to
its own residents.

(3) Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9 (Associated
Enterprises), paragraph 7 of Article 11 (Interest), or paragraph 8 of
Article 12 (Royalties and Fees for Included Services) apply, interest,
royalties, and other disbursements paid by a resident of a Contracting
State to a resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the
purposes of determining the taxable profits of the first-mentioned
resident, be deductible under the same conditions as if they had been
paid to a resident of the firstmentioned State.

(4) Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly
or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by one or more
residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the
first-mentioned State to any taxation or any requirement connected
therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and
connected requirements to which other similar enterprises of the
firstmentioned State are or may be subjected.

(5) Nothing in this article shall be construed as preventing either
Contracting State from imposing the taxes described in Article 14
(Permanent Establishment Tax) or the limitations described in paragraph
3 of Article 7 (Business Profits).

ARTICLE 27 Mutual Agreement Procedure

Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the
Contracting States result or will result for him in taxation not in
accordance with the provisions of this Convention, he may, irrespective
of the remedies provided by the domestic law of those States, present
his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he
is a resident or national. This case must be presented within three
years of the date of receipt of notice of the action which gives rise to
taxation not in accordance with the Convention.

(2) The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to
it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive at a
satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the
competent authority of the other Contracting State, with a view to the
avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Convention.
Any agreement reached shall be implemented notwithstanding any time
limits or other procedural limitations in the domestic law of the
Contracting States.

(3) The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour
to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties or doubts arising as to
the interpretation or application of the Convention. They may also
consult together for the elimination of double taxation in cases not
provided for in the Convention.

(4) The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate
with each other directly for the purpose of reaching an agreement in the
sense of the preceding paragraphs. The competent authorities, through
consultations, shall develop appropriate bilateral procedures,
conditions, methods and techniques for the implementation of the mutual
agreement procedure provided for in this Article. In addition, a
competent authority may devise appropriate unilateral procedures,
conditions, methods and techniques to facilitate the above-mentioned
bilateral actions and the implementation of the mutual agreement
procedure.

ARTICLE 28 Exchange of Information and Administrative Assistance

The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such
information (including documents) as is necessary for carrying out the
provisions of this Convention or of the domestic laws of the Contracting
States concerning taxes covered by the Convention insofar as the
taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Convention, in particular,
for the prevention of fraud or evasion of such taxes. The exchange of
information is not restricted by Article 1 (General Scope). Any
information received by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret
in the same manner as information obtained under the domestic laws of
that State. However, if the information is originally regarded as secret
in the transmitting State, it shall be disclosed only to persons or
authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) involved in the
assessment, collection, or administration of, the enforcement or
prosecution in respect of, or the determination of appeals in relation
to, the taxes which are the subject of the Convention. Such persons or
authorities shall use the information only for such purposes, but may
disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial
decisions. The competent authorities shall, through consultation,
develop appropriate conditions, methods and techniques concerning the
matters in respect of which such exchange of information shall be made,
including, where appropriate, exchange of information regarding tax
avoidance.

(2) The exchange of information or documents shall be either on a
routine basis or on request with reference to particular cases, or
otherwise. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall
agree from time to time on the list of information or documents which
shall be furnished on a routine basis.

(3) In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 1 be construed so as to
impose on a Contracting State the obligation:

to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and
administrative practice of that or of the other Contracting State;

(b) to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in
the normal course of the administration of that or of the other
Contracting State;

(c) to supply information which would disclose any trade, business,
industrial, commercial, or professional secret or trade process, or
information the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy
(ordre public).

(4) If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance
with this Article, the other Contracting State shall obtain the
information to which the request relates in the same manner and in the
same form as if the tax of the first-mentioned State were the tax of
that other State and were being imposed by that other State. If
specifically requested by the competent authority of a Contracting
State, the competent authority of the other Contracting State shall
provide information under this Article in the form of depositions of
witnesses and authenticated copies of unedited original documents
(including books, papers, statements, records, accounts, and writings),
to the same extent such depositions and documents can be obtained under
the laws and administrative practices of that other State with respect
to its own taxes.

(5) For the purpose of this Article, the Convention shall apply,
notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2 (Taxes Covered):

in the United States, to all taxes imposed under Title 26 of the United
States Code; and

(b) in India, to the income tax, the wealth tax and the gift tax.

ARTICLE 29 Diplomatic Agents and Consular Officers

Nothing in this Convention shall affect the fiscal privileges of
diplomatic agents or consular officers under the general rules of
international law or under the provisions of special agreements.

ARTICLE 30 Entry Into Force

Each Contracting State shall notify the other Contracting State in
writing, through diplomatic channels, upon the completion of their
respective legal procedures to bring this Convention into force.

(2) The Convention shall enter into force on the date of the latter of
such notifications and its provisions shall have effect:

in the United States

in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on
or after the first day of January next following the date on which the
Convention enters into force;

(ii) in respect of other taxes, for taxable periods beginning on or
after the first day of January next following the date on which the
Convention enters into force; and

(b) in India, in respect of income arising in any taxable year beginning
on or after the first day of April next following the calendar year in
which the Convention enters into force.

ARTICLE 31 Termination

This Convention shall remain in force indefinitely but either of the
Contracting States may, on or before the thirtieth day of June in any
calendar year beginning after the expiration of a period of five years
from the date of the entry into force of the Convention, give the other
Contracting State through diplomatic channels, written notice of
termination and, in such event, this Convention shall cease to have
effect:

in the United States

in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on
or after the first day of January next following the calendar year in
which notice of termination is given; and

(ii) in respect of other taxes, for taxable periods begin following the
calendar year in which the notice of termination is given; and

(b) in India, in respect of income arising in any taxable year beginning
on or after the first day of April next following the calendar year in
which the notice of termination is given.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized by their
respective Governments, have signed this Convention. DONE at New Delhi
in duplicate, this twelfth day of September, 1989, in the English and
Hindi languages, both texts being equally authentic. In case of
divergence between the two texts, the English text shall be the
operative one.

For the Government of the United States of America: JOHN R. HUBBARD

For the Government of the Republic of India: N. K. SENGUPTA

PROTOCOL

At the signing today of the Convention between the United States of
America and the Republic of India for the Avoidance of Double Taxation
and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income,
the undersigned have agreed upon the following provisions, which shall
form an integral part of the Convention:

I. Ad Article 5

It is understood that where an enterprise of a Contracting State has a
permanent establishment in the other Contracting State in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 2(j), 2(k) or 2(1) of Article 5
(Permanent Establishment), and the time period referred to in that
paragraph extends over two taxable years, a permanent establishment
shall not be deemed to exist in a year, if any, in which the use, site,
project or activity, as the case may be, continues for a period or
periods aggregating less than 30 days in that taxable year. A permanent
establishment will exist in the other taxable year, and the enterprise
will be subject to tax in that other Contracting State in accordance
with provisions of Article 7 (Business Profits), but only on income
arising during that other taxable year.

II. Ad Article 7

Where the law of the Contracting State in which a permanent
establishment is situated imposes, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3 of Article 7 (Business Profits), a restriction on the amount
of executive and general administrative expenses which may be allowed as
a deduction in determining the profits of such permanent establishment,
it is understood that in making such a determination of profits the
deduction in respect of such executive and general administrative
expenses in no case shall be less than that allowable under the Indian
Income-tax Act as on the date of signature of this Convention.

III. Ad Articles 7, 10, 11, 12, 15, and 23

It is understood that for the implementation of paragraphs 1 and 2 of
Article 7 (Business Profits); paragraph 4 of Article 10 (Dividends),
paragraph 5 of Article 11 (Interest), paragraph 6 of Article 12
(Royalties and Fees for Included Services), paragraph 1 of Article 15
(Independent Personal Services), and paragraph 2 of Article 23 (Other
Income), any income attributable to a permanent establishment or fixed
base during its existence is taxable in the Contracting State in which
such permanent establishment or fixed base is situated even if the
payments are deferred until such permanent establishment or fixed base
has ceased to exist.

IV. Ad Article 12

It is understood that fees for included services, as defined in
paragraph 4 of Article 12 (Royalties and Fees for Included Services)
will, in accordance with United States law, be subject to income tax in
the United States based on net income and, when earned by a company,
will also be subject to the taxes described in paragraph 1 of Article 14
(Permanent Establishment Tax). The total of these taxes which may be
imposed on such fees, however, may not exceed the amount computed by
multiplying the gross fee by the appropriate tax rate specified in
subparagraph (a) or (b), whichever is applicable, of paragraph 2 of
Article 12.

V. Ad Article 14

It is understood that references in paragraph 1 of Article 14 (Permanent
Establishment Tax) to profits that are subject to tax in the United
States under Article 6 (Income from Immovable Property (Real Property)),
under Article 12 (Royalties and Fees for Included Services), as fees for
included services as defined in that Article, or under Article 13
(Gains) of this Convention, are intended to refer only to cases in which
the profits in question are subject to United States tax based on net
income (i.e., by virtue of being effectively connected, or being treated
as effectively connected, with the conduct of a trade or business in the
United States). Any income which is subject to tax under those Articles
based on gross income is not subject to tax under Article 14.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized by their
respective Governments, have signed this Protocol. DONE at New Delhi in
duplicate, this twelfth day of September, 1989, in the English and Hindi
languages, both texts being equally authentic. In case of divergence
between the two texts, the English text shall be the operative one.

For the Government of the United States of America: JOHN R. HUBBARD

For the Government of the Republic of India: N. K. SENGUPTA

FIRST EXCHANGE OF NOTES

I. New Delhi, September 12, 1989

EXCELLENCY: I have the honor to refer to the Convention between the
Government of the United States of America and the Government of the
Republic of India for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the
Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income which was
signed today (hereinafter referred to as "the Convention") and to
confirm, on behalf of the Government of the United States of America,
the following understandings reached between the two Governments:

Both sides agree that a tax sparing credit shall not be provided in
Article 25 (Relief from Double Taxation) of the Convention at this time.
However, the Convention shall be promptly amended to incorporate a tax
sparing credit provision if the United States hereafter amends its laws
concerning the provision of tax sparing credits or the United States
reaches agreement on the provision of a tax' sparing credit with any
other country.

Both sides also agree that, for purposes of paragraph 4(c) of Article 5
(Permanent Establishment) of the Convention, a person shall be
considered to habitually secure orders in a Contracting State, wholly or
almost wholly for an enterprise, only if:

such person frequently accepts orders for goods or merchandise on behalf
of the enterprise;

(2) substantially all of such person's sales-related activities in the
Contracting State consist of activities for the enterprise;

(3) such person habitually represents to persons offering to buy goods
or merchandise that acceptance of an order by such person constitutes
the agreement of the enterprise to supply goods or merchandise under the
terms and conditions specified in the order; and

(4) the enterprise takes actions that give purchasers the basis for a
reasonable belief that such person has authority to bind the enterprise.

I have the honor to request Your Excellency to confirm the foregoing
understandings of Your Excellency's Government.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

JOHN R. HUBBARD

II. New Delhi, September 12, 1989

EXCELLENCY: I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of Your
Excellency's Note of today's date, which reads as follows:

[As in Note I.]

I have the honour to confirm the understandings contained in Your
Excellency's Note, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of India.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

N. K. SENGUPTA

SECOND EXCHANGE OF NOTES

I. New Delhi, September 12, 1989

EXCELLENCY: I have the honor to refer to the Convention signed today
between the United States of America and the Republic of India for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with
Respect to Taxes on Income and to inform you on behalf of the United
States of America of the following:

During the course of the negotiations leading to conclusion of the
Convention signed today, the negotiators developed and agreed upon a
memorandum of understanding intended to give guidance both to the
taxpayers and the tax authorities of our two countries in interpreting
aspects of Article 12 Royalties and Fees for Included Services) relating
to the scope of included services. This memorandum of understanding
represents the current views of the United States Government with
respect to these aspects of Article 12, and it is my Government's
understanding that it also represents the current views of the Indian
Government. It is also my Government's view that as our Governments gain
experience in administering the Convention, and particularly Article 12,
the competent authorities may develop and publish amendments to the
memorandum of understanding and further understandings and
interpretations of the Convention.

If this position meets with the approval of the Government of the
Republic of India, this letter and your reply thereto will indicate that
our Governments share a common view of the purpose of the memorandum of
understanding relating to Article 12 of the Convention.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

JOHN R. HUBBARD

II. New Delhi, September 12, 1989

EXCELLENCY: I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of Your
Excellency's Note of today's date, which reads as follows:

[As in Note I.]

I have the honour to confirm the understandings contained in Your
Excellency's Note, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of India.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

N. K. SENGUPTA

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING MAY 15, 1989. U.S.-INDIA TAX TREATY
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING CONCERNING FEES FOR INCLUDED SERVICES IN
ARTICLE 12

Paragraph 4 (in general)

This memorandum describes in some detail the category of services
defined in paragraph 4 of Article 12 (Royalties and Fees for Included
Services). It also provides examples of services intended to be covered
within the definition of included services and those intended to be
excluded, either because they do not satisfy the tests of paragraph 4,
or because, notwithstanding the fact that they meet the tests of
paragraph 4, they are dealt with under paragraph 5. The examples in
either case are not intended as an exhaustive list but rather as
illustrating a few typical cases. For ease of understanding, the
examples in this memorandum describe U.S. persons providing services to
Indian persons, but the rules of Article 12 are reciprocal in
application.

Article 12 includes only certain technical and consultancy services. By
technical services, we mean in this context services requiring expertise
in a technology. By consultancy services, we mean m this context
advisory services. The categories of technical and consultancy services
are to some extent overlapping because a consultancy service could also
be a technical service. However, the category of consultancy services
also includes an advisory service, whether or not expertise in a
technology is required to perform it.

Under paragraph 4 technical and consultancy services are considered
included services only to the following extent: (1) as described in
paragraph 4(a), if they are ancillary and subsidiary to the application
or enjoyment of a right, property or information for which a royalty
payment is made; or (2) as described in paragraph 4(b), if they make
available technical knowledge, experience, skill, know-how, or
processes, or consist of the development and transfer of a technical
plan or technical design. Thus, under paragraph 4(b), consultancy
services which are not of a technical nature cannot be included
services.

Paragraph 4(a)

Paragraph 4(a) of Article 12 refers to technical or consultancy services
that are ancillary and subsidiary to the application or enjoyment of any
right, property, or information for which a payment described in
paragraph 3(a) or (b) is received. Thus, paragraph 4(a) includes
technical and consultancy services that are ancillary and subsidiary to
the application or enjoyment of an intangible for which a royalty is
received under a license or sale as described in paragraph 3(a), as well
as those ancillary and subsidiary to the application or enjoyment of
industrial, commercial, or scientific equipment for which a royalty is
received under a lease as described in paragraph 3(1)).

It is understood that, in order for a service fee to be considered
"ancillary and subsidiary" to the application or enjoyment of some
right, property, or information for which a payment described in
paragraph 3(a) or (b) is received, the service must be related to the
application or enjoyment of the right, property, or information. In
addition, the clearly predominant purpose of the arrangement under which
the payment of the service fee and such other payment are made must be
the application or enjoyment of the right, property, or information
described in paragraph 3. The question of whether the service is related
to the application or enjoyment of the right, property, or information
described in paragraph 3 and whether the clearly predominant purpose of
the arrangement is such application or enjoyment must be determined by
reference to the facts and circumstances of each case. Factors which may
be relevant to such determination (although not necessarily controlling)
include:

the extent to which the services in question facilitate the effective
application or enjoyment of the right, property, or information
described in paragraph 3;

(2) the extent to which such services are customarily provided in the
ordinary course of business arrangements involving royalties described
in paragraph 3;

(3) whether the amount paid for the services (or which would be paid by
parties operating at arm's length) is an insubstantial portion of the
combined payments for the services and the right, property, or
information described in paragraph 3;

(4) whether the payment made for the services and the royalty described
in paragraph 3 are made under a single contract (or a set of related
contracts); and

(5) whether the person performing the services is the same person as, or
a related person to, the person receiving the royalties described in
paragraph 3 (for this purpose, persons are considered related if their
relationship is described in Article 9 (Associated Enterprises) or if
the person providing the service is doing so in connection with an
overall arrangement which includes the payor and recipient of the
royalties).

To the extent that services are not considered ancillary and subsidiary
to the application or enjoyment of some right, property, or information
for which a royalty payment under paragraph 3 is made, such services
shall be considered "included services" only to the extent that they are
described in paragraph 4(b).

Example (1)

Facts:

A U.S. manufacturer grants rights to an Indian company to use
manufacturing processes in which the transferor has exclusive rights by
virtue of process patents or the protection otherwise extended by law to
the owner of a process. As part of the contractual arrangement, the U.S.
manufacturer agrees to provide certain consultancy services to the
Indian company in order to improve the effectiveness of the latter's use
of the process. Such services include, for example, the provision of
information and advice on sources of supply for materials needed in the
manufacturing process, and on the development of sales and service
literature for the manufactured product. The payments allocable to such
services do not form a substantial part of the total consideration
payable under the contractual arrangement. Are the payments for these
services fees for "included services"?

Analysis:

The payments are fees for included services. The services described in
this example are ancillary and subsidiary to the use of a manufacturing
process protected by law as described in paragraph 3(a) of Article 12
because the services are related to the application or enjoyment of the
intangible and the granting of the right to use the intangible is the
clearly predominant purpose of the arrangement. Because the services are
ancillary and subsidiary to the use of the manufacturing process, the
fees for these services are considered fees for included services under
paragraph 4(a) of Article 12, regardless of whether the services are
described in paragraph 4(b).

Example (2)

Facts:

An Indian manufacturing company produces a product that must be
manufactured under sterile conditions using machinery that must be kept
completely free of bacterial or other harmful deposits. A U.S. company
has developed a special cleaning process for removing such deposits from
that type of machinery. The U.S. company enters into a contract with the
Indian company under which the former will clean the latter's machinery
on a regular basis. As part of the arrangement, the U.S. company leases
to the Indian company a piece of equipment which allows the Indian
company to measure the level of bacterial deposits on its machinery in
order for it to know when cleaning is required. Are the payments for the
services fees for included services?

Analysis:

In this example, the provision of cleaning services by the U. S. company
and the rental of the monitoring equipment are related to each other.
However, the clearly predominant purpose of the arrangement is the
provision of cleaning services. Thus, although the cleaning services
might be considered technical services, they are not "ancillary and
subsidiary" to the rental of the monitoring equipment. Accordingly, the
cleaning services are not "included services" within the meaning of
paragraph 4(a).

Paragraph 4(b)

Paragraph 4(b) of Article 12 refers to technical or consultancy services
that make available to the person acquiring the service technical
knowledge, experience, skill, know-how, or processes, or consist of the
development and transfer of a technical plan or technical design to such
person. (For this purpose, the person acquiring the service shall be
deemed to include an agent, nominee, or transferee of such person.) This
category is narrower than the category described in paragraph 4(a)
because it excludes any service that does not make technology available
to the person acquiring the service. Generally speaking, technology will
be considered "made available" when the person acquiring the service is
enabled to apply the technology. The fact that the provision of the
service may require technical input by the person providing the service
does not per se mean that technical knowledge, skills, etc. are made
available to the person purchasing the service, within the meaning of
paragraph 4(b). Similarly, the use of a product which embodies
technology shall not per se he considered to make the technology
available.

Typical categories of services that generally involve either the
development and transfer of technical plans or technical designs, or
making technology available as described in paragraph 4(b), include:

engineering services (including the subcategories of bioengineering and
aeronautical, agricultural, ceramics, chemical, civil, electrical,
mechanical, metallurgical, and industrial engineering);

(2) architectural services; and

(3) computer software development.

Under paragraph 4(b), technical and consultancy services could make
technology available in a variety of settings, activities and
industries. Such services may, for example, relate to any of the
following areas:

bio-technical services;

(2) food processing;

(3) environmental and ecological services;

(4) communication through satellite or otherwise;

(5) energy conservation;

(6) exploration or exploitation of mineral oil or natural gas;

(7) geological surveys;

(8) scientific services; and

(9) technical training.

The following examples indicate the scope of the conditions in paragraph
4(b):

Example (3)

Facts:

A U.S. manufacturer has experience in the use of a process for
manufacturing wallboard for interior walls of houses which is more
durable than the standard products of its type. An Indian builder wishes
to produce this product for its own use. It rents a plant and contracts
with the U.S. company to send experts to India to show engineers in the
Indian company how to produce the extra strong wallboard. The U.S.
contractors work with the technicians in the Indian firm for a few
months. Are the payments to the U.S. firm considered to be payments for
"included services"?

Analysis:

The payments would be fees for included services. The services are of a
technical or consultancy nature; in the example, they have elements of
both types of services. The services make available to the Indian
company technical knowledge, skill, and processes.

Example (4)

Facts:

A U.S. manufacturer operates a wallboard fabrication plant outside
India. An Indian builder hires the U.S. company to produce wallboard at
that plant for a fee. The Indian company provides the raw materials, and
the U.S. manufacturer fabricates the wallboard in its plant, using
advanced technology. Are the fees in this example for included services?

Analysis:

The fees would not be for included services. Although the U.S. company
is clearly performing a technical service, no technical knowledge,
skill, etc., are made available to the Indian company, nor is there any
development and transfer of a technical plan or design. The U.S. company
is merely performing a contract manufacturing service.

Example (5)

Facts:

An Indian firm owns inventory control software for use in its chain of
retail outlets throughout India. It expands its sales operation by
employing a team of traveling salesmen to travel around the countryside
selling the company's wares. The company wants to modify its software to
permit the salesmen to access the company's central computers for
information on what products are available in inventory and when they
can be delivered. The Indian firm hires a U.S. computer programming firm
to modify its software for this purpose. Are the fees which the Indian
firm pays treated as fees for included services?

Analysis:

The fees are for included services. The U.S. company clearly performs a
technical service for the Indian company, and it transfers to the Indian
company the technical plan (i.e., the computer program) which it has
developed.

Example (6)

Facts:

An Indian vegetable oil manufacturing company wants to produce a
cholesterol-free oil from a plant which produces oil normally containing
cholesterol. An American company has developed a process for refining
the cholesterol out of the oil. The Indian company contracts with the
U.S. company to modify the formulas which it uses so as to eliminate the
cholesterol, and to train the employees of the Indian company in
applying the new formulas. Are the fees paid by the Indian company for
included services?

Analysis:

The fees are for included services. The services are technical, and the
technical knowledge is made available to the Indian company.

Example (7)

Facts:

The Indian vegetable oil manufacturing firm has mastered the science of
producing cholesterol-free oil and wishes to market the product
world-wide. It hires an American marketing consulting firm to do a
computer simulation of the world market for such oil and to advise it on
marketing strategies. Are the fees paid to the U.S. company for included
services?

Analysis: The fees would not be for included services. The American
company is providing a consultancy service which involves the use of
substantial technical skill and expertise. It is not, however, making
available to the Indian company any technical experience, knowledge or
skill, etc., nor is it transferring a technical plan or design. What is
transferred to the Indian company through the service contract is
commercial information. The fact that technical skills were required by
the performer of the service in order to perform the commercial
information service does not make the service a technical service within
the meaning of paragraph 4(b).

Paragraph 5

Paragraph 5 of Article 12 describes several categories of services which
are not intended to be treated as included services even if they satisfy
the tests of paragraph 4. Set forth below are examples of cases where
fees would be included under paragraph 4, but are excluded because of
the conditions of paragraph 5.

Example (8)

Facts:

An Indian company purchases a computer from a U.S. computer
manufacturer. As part of the purchase agreement, the manufacturer agrees
to assist the Indian company in setting up the computer and installing
the operating system, and to ensure that the staff of the Indian company
is able to operate the computer. Also, as part of the purchase
agreement, the seller agrees to provide, for a period of ten years, any
updates to the operating system and any training necessary to apply the
update. Both of these service elements to the contract would qualify
under paragraph 4(b) as an included service. Would either or both be
excluded from the category of included services, under paragraph 5(a),
because they are ancillary and subsidiary, as well as inextricably and
essentially linked, to the sale of the computer?

Analysis:

The installation assistance and initial training are ancillary and
subsidiary to the sale of the computer, and they are also inextricably
and essentially linked to the sale. The computer would be of little
value to the Indian purchaser without these services, which are most
readily and usefully provided by the seller. The fees for installation
assistance and initial training, therefore, are not fees for included
services, since these services are not the predominant purpose of the
arrangement.

The services of updating the operating system and providing associated
necessary training may well be ancillary and subsidiary to the sale of
the computer, but they are not inextricably and essentially linked to
the sale. Without the upgrades, the computer will continue to operate as
it did when purchased, and will continue to accomplish the same
functions. Acquiring the updates cannot, therefore, be said to be
inextricably and essentially linked to the sale of the computer.

Example (9)

Facts:

An Indian hospital purchases an X-ray machine from a U.S. manufacturer.
As part of the purchase agreement, the manufacturer agrees to install
the machine, to perform an initial inspection of the machine in India,
to train hospital staff in the use of the machine, and to service the
machine periodically during the usual warranty period (2 years). Under
an optional service contract purchased by the hospital, the manufacturer
also agrees to perform certain other services throughout the life of the
machine, including periodic inspections and repair services, advising
the hospital about developments in Xray film or techniques which could
improve the effectiveness of the machine, and training hospital staff in
the application of those new developments. The cost of the initial
installation, inspection, training, and warranty service is relatively
minor as compared with the cost of the X-ray machine. Is any of the
service described here ancillary and subsidiary, as well as inextricably
and essentially linked, to the sale of the X-ray machine?

Analysis:

The initial installation, inspection, and training services in India and
the periodic service during the warranty period are ancillary and
subsidiary, as well as inextricably and essentially linked, to the sale
of the X-ray machine because the usefulness of the machine to the
hospital depends on this service, the manufacturer has full
responsibility during this period, and the cost of the services is a
relatively minor component of the contract. Therefore, under paragraph
5(a) these fees are not fees for included services, regardless of
whether they otherwise would fall within paragraph 4(b). Neither the
post-warranty period inspection and repair services, nor the advisory
and training services relating to new developments are "inextricably and
essentially linked" to the initial purchase of the X-ray machine.
Accordingly, fees for these services may be treated as fees for included
services if they meet the tests of paragraph 4(b).

Example (10)

Facts:

An Indian automobile manufacturer decides to expand into the manufacture
of helicopters. It sends a group of engineers from its design staff to a
course of study conducted by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
(MIT) for two years to study aeronautical engineering. The Indian firm
pays tuition fees to MIT on behalf of the firm's employees. Is the
tuition fee a fee for an included service within the meaning of Article
12?

Analysis:

The tuition fee is clearly intended to acquire a technical service for
the firm. However, the fee paid is for teaching by an educational
institution, and is, therefore, under paragraph 5(c), not an included
service. It is irrelevant for this purpose whether MIT conducts the
course on its campus or at some other location.

Example (11)

Facts:

As in Example (10), the automobile manufacturer wishes to expand into
the manufacture of helicopters. It approaches an Indian university about
establishing a course of study in aeronautical engineering. The
university contracts with a U.S. helicopter manufacturer to send an
engineer to be a visiting professor of aeronautical engineering on its
faculty for a year. Are the amounts paid by the university for these
teaching services fees for included services?

Analysis:

The fees are for teaching in an educational institution. As such,
pursuant to paragraph 5(c), they are not fees for included services.

Example (12)

Facts:

An Indian wishes to install a computerized system in his home to control
lighting, heating and air conditioning, a stereo sound system and a
burglar and fire alarm system. He hires an American electrical
engineering firm to design the necessary wiring system, adapt standard
software, and provide instructions for installation. Are the fees paid
to the American firm by the Indian individual fees for included
services?

Analysis:

The services in respect of which the fees are paid are of the type which
would generally be treated as fees for included services under paragraph
4(1)). However, because the services are for the personal use of the
individual making the payment, under paragraph 5(d) the payments would
not be fees for included services.

TREATY, INCOME, Singapore and United Kingdom, in-force (1997)--Latest
Amended Version

TREATY TYPE: INCOME

STATUS: IN-FORCE

SIGNING DATE: FEB 12, 1997 (Agreement); AUG 24, 2009 (Protocol #1); FEB
15, 2012 (Protocol #2)

ENTRY INTO FORCE DATE: DEC 19, 1997 (Agreement); JAN 08, 2011 (Protocol
#1); DEC 27, 2012 (Protocol #2)

EFFECTIVE DATES: See Article 29 of the Agreement. See Article III of the
Protocol. See Article XVII of Protocol #2.

SCOPE: BILATERAL

MULTILATERAL INSTRUMENT (MLI): Both signatories to this agreement have
signed and deposited their instrument of ratification for the MLI and
this agreement has been designated by both as a covered agreement. Each
signatorys reservations and notifications may be viewed using this
tool:

A synthesized version of the text of this agreement incorporating
changes made by the MLI is available:

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN
AND NORTHERN IRELAND AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE FOR
THE AVOIDANCE OF DOUBLE TAXATION AND THE PREVENTION OF FISCAL EVASION
WITH RESPECT TO TAXES ON INCOME AND CAPITAL GAINS

The Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland and the Government of the Republic of Singapore, desiring to
conclude a new Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation and the
prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and capital
gains, have agreed as follows:

ARTICLE 1 Personal Scope

This Agreement shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both
of the Contracting States.

ARTICLE 2 Taxes Covered

This Agreement shall apply to taxes on income and on capital gains
imposed on behalf of a Contracting State, irrespective of the manner in
which they are levied.

(2) There shall be regarded as taxes on income and on capital gains all
taxes imposed on total income, or on elements of income including taxes
on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property.

(3) The existing taxes to which this Agreement shall apply are in
particular:

in the case of the United Kingdom:

the income tax;

(ii) the corporation tax; and

(iii) the capital gains tax;

(hereinafter referred to as "United Kingdom tax");

(b) in the case of Singapore:

the income tax (hereinafter referred to as "Singapore tax").

(4) This Agreement shall also apply to any identical or substantially
similar taxes which are imposed by either Contracting State after the
date of signature of this Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the
existing taxes. The competent authorities of the Contracting States
shall notify each other of any substantial changes which have been made
in their respective taxation laws.

ARTICLE 3 General Definitions

For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires:

the term "United Kingdom" means Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
including any area outside the territorial sea of the United Kingdom
which in accordance with international law has been or may hereafter be
designated, under the laws of the United Kingdom concerning the
Continental Shelf, as an area within which the rights of the United
Kingdom with respect to the sea bed and sub-soil and their natural
resources may be exercised;

(b) the term "Singapore" means the Republic of Singapore;

(c) the term "national" means:

in relation to the United Kingdom, any British citizen, or any British
subject not possessing the citizenship of any ,other Commonwealth
country or territory, provided he has the right of abode in the United
Kingdom; and any legal person, partnership, association or other entity
deriving its status as such from the law in force in the United Kingdom;

(ii) in relation to Singapore, any individual possessing the nationality
of Singapore; and any legal person, partnership or association deriving
its status as such from the laws in force in Singapore;

(d) the terms "a Contracting State" and "the other Contracting State"
mean the United Kingdom or Singapore, as the context requires;

(e) the term "person" includes an individual, a company and any other
body of persons;

(f) the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity which is
treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;

(g) the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the
other Contracting State" mean respectively an enterprise carried on by a
resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a
resident of the other Contracting State;

(h) the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or
aircraft operated by an enterprise of a Contracting State, except when
the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other
Contracting State;

the term "competent authority" means:

in the case of the United Kingdom, the Commissioners for Her Majesty's
Revenue and Customs or their authorised representative;

(ii) in the case of Singapore, the Minister for Finance or his
authorised representative;

(j) the term "tax" means United Kingdom or Singapore tax as the context
requires;

(k) the term "fiscal year" means,

in the case of the United Kingdom:

 for the purposes of the income tax, a year of assessment beginning on
6 April in one year and ending on 5 April in the following year;

 for the purposes of the corporation tax, a year of assessment
beginning on 1 April in one year and ending on 31 March in the following
year; and,

(ii) in the case of Singapore, a calendar year.

(2) For the purposes of Articles 10, 11 and 12 of this Agreement, a
trustee subject to tax in a Contracting State in respect of dividends,
interest or royalties shall be deemed to be the beneficial owner of that
interest or those dividends or royalties.

(3) As regards the application of this Agreement by a Contracting State
any term not defined therein shall, unless the context otherwise
requires, have the meaning which it has under the laws of that
Contracting State concerning the taxes to which this Agreement applies.

ARTICLE 4 Residence

For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "resident of a Contracting
State" means any person who, under the laws of that State, is liable to
tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of management,
place of incorporation or any other criterion of a similar nature, and
also includes that State and any political subdivision, local authority
or statutory body thereof.

(2) Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article
an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his status
shall be determined in accordance with the following rules:

he shall be deemed to be a resident of the Contracting State in which he
has a permanent home available to him; if he has a permanent home
available to him in both Contracting States, he shall be deemed to be a
resident of the Contracting State with which his personal and economic
relations are closer (centre of vital interests);

(b) if the Contracting State in which he has his centre of vital
interests cannot be determined, or if he does not have a permanent home
available to him in either Contracting State, he shall be deemed to be a
resident of the Contracting State in which he has an habitual abode;

(c) if he has an habitual abode in both Contracting States or in neither
of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident of the Contracting State of
which he is a national;

(d) if he is a national of both Contracting States or of neither of
them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle
the question by mutual agreement.

(3) Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article a
person other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting
States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in
which its place of effective management is situated. In cases of doubt,
the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to
determine by mutual agreement the State in which the person's place of
effective management is situated taking into consideration all relevant
factors. In the absence of a mutual agreement by the competent
authorities of the Contracting States, the person shall not be
considered a resident of either Contracting State for the purposes of
claiming any benefits provided by the Agreement, except those provided
by Articles 23, 25 and 26.

ARTICLE 5 Permanent Establishment

For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "permanent establishment"
means a fixed place of business through which the business of an
enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.

(2) The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:

a place of management;

(b) a branch;

(c) an office;

(d) a factory;

(e) a workshop;

(f) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of
extraction of natural resources.

(3) A building site or construction, assembly or installation project
constitutes a permanent establishment only if it lasts more than six
months.

(4) An enterprise of a Contracting State shall be deemed to have a
permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if:

it carries on supervisory activities in that other Contracting State for
more than six months in connection with a building site or construction,
assembly or installation project which is being undertaken in that other
Contracting State;

(b) it furnishes services, including consultancy services, through
employees or other personnel engaged by the enterprise for such purpose,
but only where activities of that nature continue (for the same or a
connected project) within the other Contracting State for a period or
periods aggregating more than 183 days in the fiscal year concerned;

provided that the provisions of subparagraph (b) shall cease to have
effect for any fiscal year beginning after five years from the date on
which the Second Protocol first had effect.

(5) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term
"permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to include:

the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage, display or
delivery of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise;

(b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise solely for the purpose of storage, display or delivery;

(c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by another enterprise;

(d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose
of purchasing goods or merchandise, or of collecting information, for
the enterprise;

(e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose
of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other activity of a preparatory
or auxiliary character;

(f) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any
combination of activities mentioned in sub-paragraphs (a) to (e) of this
paragraph, provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of
business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory or
auxiliary character.

(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this
Article, where a person (other than an agent of an independent status to
whom paragraph (7) of this Article applies) is acting on behalf of an
enterprise and has, and habitually exercises, in a Contracting State an
authority to conclude contracts on behalf of the enterprise, that
enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in that
State in respect of any activities which that person undertakes for the
enterprise, unless the activities of such person are limited to those
mentioned in paragraph (5) of this Article which, if exercised through a
fixed place of business, would not make this fixed place of business a
permanent establishment under the provisions of that paragraph.

(7) An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment
in a Contracting State merely because it carries on business in that
State through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of
an independent status, provided that such persons are acting in the
ordinary course of their business.

(8) The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State
controls or is controlled by a company which is a resident of the other
Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State
(whether through a permanent establishment or otherwise), shall not of
itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.

ARTICLE 6 Income From Immovable Property

Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable
property (including income from agriculture or forestry) situated in the
other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.

(2) The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has
under the law of the Contracting State in which the property in question
is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to
immovable property, livestock and equipment used in agriculture and
forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting
landed property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to
variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working .of, or the
right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources;
ships and aircraft shall not be regarded as immovable property.

(3) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article shall apply to
income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of
immovable property.

(4) The provisions of paragraphs (1) and (3) of this Article shall also
apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and to
income from immovable property used for the performance of independent
personal services.

ARTICLE 7 Business Profits

The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable
only in that State unless the enterprise carries on business in the
other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated
therein. If the enterprise carries on business as aforesaid, the profits
of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of
them as is attributable to that permanent establishment.

(2) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) of this Article, where an
enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other
Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein,
there shall in each Contracting State be attributed to that permanent
establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were
a distinct and separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar
activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly
independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent
establishment.

(3) In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall
be allowed as deductions all expenses which are incurred for the
purposes of the permanent establishment, including executive and general
administrative expenses, which would be deductible if the permanent
establishment were an independent enterprise in so far as they are
reasonably allocable to the permanent establishment, whether incurred in
the Contracting State in which the permanent establishment is situated
or elsewhere.

(4) No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by
reason of the mere purchase by that permanent establishment of goods or
merchandise for the enterprise.

(5) For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be
attributed to the permanent establishment shall be determined by the
same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to
the contrary.

(6) Where profits include items of income or capital gains which are
dealt with separately in other Articles of this Agreement, then the
provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of
this Article.

ARTICLE 8 Shipping and Air Transport

Profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State from the operation of
ships or aircraft in international traffic shall be taxable only in that
State.

(2) For the purposes of this Article, profits from the operation of
ships or aircraft in international traffic include:

profits from the rental on a bareboat basis of ships or aircraft; and

(b) profits from the use, maintenance or rental of containers (including
trailers and related equipment for the transport of containers) used for
the transport of goods or merchandise;

where such rental or such use, maintenance or rental, as the case may
be, is incidental to the operation of ships or aircraft in international
traffic.

(3) Interest on funds connected with the operation of ships or aircraft
in international traffic shall be regarded as profits derived from the
operation of such ships or aircraft, and the provisions of Article 11 of
this Agreement shall not apply to such interest.

(4) The provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Article shall also
apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or
an international operating agency, but only to so much of the profits so
derived as is attributable to the participant in proportion to its share
in the joint operation.

ARTICLE 9 Associated Enterprises

Where:

an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly
in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of the other
Contracting State; or

(b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the
management, control or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting State
and an enterprise of the other Contracting State;

and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two
enterprises in their commercial or financial relations which. differ
from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any
profits which would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of
the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not so
accrued, may be included by a Contracting State in the profits of that
enterprise and taxed accordingly.

(2) Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise
of that Stateand taxes accordinglyprofits on which an enterprise of
the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State
and the profits so included are profits which would have accrued to the
enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between
the two enterprises had been those which would have been made between
independent enterprises, then that other State shall make an appropriate
adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits.
The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall consult each
other in determining such adjustment with due regard being had to the
other provisions of this Agreement.

ARTICLE 10 Dividends

Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article, dividends paid
by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State and beneficially
owned by a resident of the other Contracting State shall be taxable only
in that other Contracting State.

(2) However,

dividends paid by a real estate investment trust which is a resident of
the United Kingdom may also be taxed, according to its laws, in the
United Kingdom. However, if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a
resident of Singapore, the tax so charged shall not exceed 15 percent of
the gross amount of the dividends;

(b) distributions paid by a real estate investment trust which is
organised in Singapore may also be taxed, according to its laws, in
Singapore. However, if the beneficial owner of the distributions is a
resident of the United Kingdom, the tax so charged shall not exceed 15
percent of the gross amount of the distributions.

This paragraph and paragraph 1 shall not affect the taxation of the
company or the real estate investment trust in respect of the profits
out of which the dividends or distributions are paid.

(3) For the purposes of paragraph 2 of this Article, a real estate
investment trust means:

in the case of the United Kingdom, a real estate investment trust within
the meaning of Part 12 of Corporation Tax Act 2010 and a property
authorised investment fund within the meaning of Part 4A of the
Authorised Investment Funds (Tax) Regulations 2006 (SI 2006/964);

(b) in the case of Singapore, a trust that is constituted as a
collective investment scheme authorised under section 286 of the
Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289) and listed on the Singapore
Exchange, and that invests or proposes to invest in immovable property
and immovable property-related assets.

(4) The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from
shares, or other rights, not being debt-claims, participating in
profits, as well as income from other corporate rights assimilated to
income from shares by the taxation laws of the State of which the
company making the distribution is a resident and also includes any
other item which, under the laws of the Contracting State of which the
company paying the dividends is a resident, is treated as a dividend or
distribution of a company. For the purposes of paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 of
this Article, the term "dividends" also includes distributions within
the meaning of subparagraph (b) of paragraph 2 of this Article and
reference to a company shall be read as including reference to a real
estate investment trust as appropriate.

(5) The provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Article shall not
apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of
which the company paying the dividends is a resident, through a
permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other
State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein,
and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is
effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base.
In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14 of this
Agreement, as the case may be, shall apply.

(6) Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives
profits or income from the other Contracting State, that other State may
not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar
as such dividends are paid to a resident of that other State or insofar
as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in
that other State, nor subject the company's undistributed profits to a
tax on undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the
undistributed profits consist wholly or partly of profits OF income
arising in that other State.

(7) The provisions of this Article shall not apply if it was the main
purpose or one of the main purposes of any person concerned with the
creation or assignment of the shares or other rights in respect of which
the dividend is paid to take advantage of this Article by means of that
creation or assignment.

(8) In the event that a resident of a Contracting State is denied relief
from taxation in the other Contracting State by reason of the provisions
of paragraph (7) of this Article, the competent authority of the other
Contracting State shall notify the competent authority of the
first-mentioned Contracting State.

ARTICLE 11 Interest

Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the
other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.

(2) However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in
which it arises and according to the laws of that State, but if the
recipient is the beneficial owner of the interest the tax so charged
shall not exceed 5 percent of the gross amount of interest.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article,
interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the
other Contracting State shall be taxable only in that other State if the
recipient is the beneficial owner of that interest and:

is the Government of the other Contracting State;

(b) is a bank or similar financial institution; or

(c) the interest is paid by a bank or similar financial institution.

(4) For the purposes of paragraph 3 of this Article, the term
Government:

in the case of United Kingdom, means the Government of the United
Kingdom and shall include:

the Bank of England;

(ii) the United Kingdom Export Credits Guarantee Department;

(iii) CDC Group plc;

(iv) a statutory body; and

(v) any institution wholly or mainly owned by the Government of the
United Kingdom as may be agreed from time to time between the competent
authorities of the Contracting States."

(b) in the case of Singapore, means the Government of Singapore and
shall include:

the Monetary Authority of Singapore;

(ii) the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Pte Ltd;

(iii) a statutory body; and

(iv) any institution wholly or mainly owned by the Government of
Singapore as may be agreed from time to time between the competent
authorities of the Contracting States;

(5) The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from
debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by mortgage and
whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits,
and in particular, income from government securities and income from
bonds or debentures. The term interest shall not include any item which
is treated as a distribution under the provisions of Article 10 of this
Agreement.

(6) The provisions of paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) of this Article shall
not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in
which the interest arises, through a permanent establishment situated
therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services
from a fixed base situated therein, and the debt-claim in respect of
which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent
establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or
Article 14 of this Agreement, as the case may be, shall apply.

(7) Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the
payer is a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the
interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in
a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in
connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was
incurred, and such interest is borne by such permanent establishment or
fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed to arise in the State in
which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.

(8) Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the
beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the
amount of the interest paid exceeds, for whatever reason, the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner
in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article
shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount of interest. In such case,
the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the
laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other
provisions of this Agreement.

(9) The provisions of this Article shall not apply if it was the main
purpose or one of the main purposes, of any person concerned with the
creation or assignment of the debt-claim in respect of which the
interest is paid to take advantage of this Article by means of that
creation or assignment. (10) In the event that a resident of a
Contracting State is denied relief from taxation in the other
Contracting State by reason of the provisions of paragraph (9) of this
Article, the competent authority of that other Contracting State shall
notify the competent authority of the first-mentioned Contracting State.

ARTICLE 12 Royalties

Royalties arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the
other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.

(2) However, such royalties may also be taxed in the Contracting State
in which they arise and according to the laws of that State, but if the
recipient is the beneficial owner of the royalties the tax so charged
shall not exceed 8 percent of the gross amount of the royalties.

(3) The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any
kind received as a consideration for the use of, or the right to use,
any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work (including
cinematograph films, and films or tapes for radio or television
broadcasting), any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret
formula or process, or for information (know-how) concerning industrial,
commercial or scientific experience.

(5) The provisions of paragraphs (1), (2) of this Article shall not
apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties or of the sums derived,
being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the
other Contracting State in which the royalties or the sums arise,
through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that
other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
therein, and the right or property in respect of which the royalties are
paid or the sums are derived is effectively connected with such
permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of
Article 7 or Article 14 of this Agreement, as the case may be, shall
apply.

(6) Royalties shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the
payer is a resident of that State. Where, however, the person paying the
royalties, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has
in a Contracting State a permanent establishment or fixed base in
connection with which the obligation to pay the royalties was incurred,
and such royalties are borne by such permanent establishment or fixed
base, then such royalties shall be deemed to arise in the Contracting
State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.

(7) Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the
beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the
amount of the royalties paid exceeds, for whatever reason, the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner
in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article
shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess
part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each
Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this
Agreement.

(8) The provisions of this Article shall not apply if it was the main
purpose or one of the main purposes of any person concerned with the
creation or assignment of the rights in respect of which the royalties
are paid to take advantage of this Article by means of that creation or
assignment.

(9) In the event that a resident of a Contracting State is denied relief
from taxation in the other Contracting State by reason of the provisions
of paragraph (8) of this Article, the competent authority of the other
Contracting State shall notify the competent authority of the
first-mentioned Contracting State.

ARTICLE 13 Capital Gains

Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation
of immovable property referred to in Article 6 of this Agreement and
situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
State.

(2) Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the
alienation of:

shares, other than shares traded on a recognised Stock Exchange,
deriving at least three-quarters of their value directly or indirectly
from immovable property situated in the other Contracting State, or

(b) an interest in a partnership or trust the assets of which derive at
least three-quarters of their value directly or indirectly from
immovable property situated in the other Contracting State,

may be taxed in that other State.

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, assets
consisting of shares referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph
shall be regarded as immovable property.

(3) Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the
business property of a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a
Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable
property pertaining to a fixed base available to a resident of a
Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of
performing independent personal services, including such gains from the
alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or with the whole
enterprise) or of such fixed base, may be taxed in that other State.

(4) Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the
alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international traffic by an
enterprise of that Contracting State or movable property pertaining to
the operation of such ships or aircraft, shall be taxable only in that
Contracting State.

(5) Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred
to in paragraphs (1), (2), (3) and (4) of this Article shall be taxable
only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.

(6) The provisions of paragraph (5) of this Article shall not affect the
right of a Contracting State to levy according to its law a tax on
capital gains from the alienation of any property derived by an
individual who is a national of that Contracting State and who is a
resident of the other Contracting State and has been a resident of the
first-mentioned Contracting State at any time during the five years
immediately preceding the alienation of the property.

ARTICLE 14 Independent Personal Services

Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State
in respect of professional services or other activities of an
independent character shall be taxable only in that State except in the
following circumstances when such income may also be taxed in the other
Contracting State:

if he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other State for
the purpose of performing his activities; in that case, only so much of
the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed in that
other State; or

(b) if his stay in the other State is for a period or periods exceeding
in the aggregate 183 days in the fiscal year concerned; in that case,
only so much of the income as is derived from his activities performed
in that other State may be taxed in that other State;

provided that the provisions of subparagraph (b) shall cease to have
effect for any fiscal year beginning after five years from the date on
which the Second Protocol first had effect.

(2) The term "professional services" includes especially independent
scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teaching activities as
well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers,
architects, dentists and accountants.

ARTICLE 15 Dependent Personal Services

Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18 and 19 of this Agreement,
salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a resident of
a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in
that State unless the employment is exercised in the other Contracting
State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is
derived therefrom may be taxed in that other State.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article,
remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of
an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable
only in the first-mentioned State if:

the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not
exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any twelve month period
commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned; and

(b) the services are performed for or on behalf of a person who is a
resident of the first-mentioned Contracting State; and

(c) the remuneration is subject to tax in the first-mentioned
Contracting State; and

(d) the remuneration is not directly deductible from the profits for tax
purposes of a permanent establishment or a fixed base in the other
Contracting State.

(3) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article,
remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised aboard a ship
or aircraft operated in international traffic by an enterprise of a
Contracting State may be taxed in that State.

ARTICLE 16 Directors' Fees

Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a
Contracting State in his capacity as a member of the board of directors
of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be
taxed in that other State.

ARTICLE 17 Artistes and Sportsmen

Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 14 and Article 15 of this
Agreement, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an
entertainer, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television
artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsman, from his personal activities
as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that
other State.

(2) Where income in respect of or in connection with personal activities
exercised by an entertainer or a sportsman accrues not to the
entertainer or sportsman himself but to another person, that income may,
notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 7, 14 and 15 of this
Agreement, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of
the entertainer or sportsman are exercised.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this
Article, income derived from activities as defined in paragraph (1)
performed in a Contracting State by entertainers or sportsmen shall be
exempt from tax in the Contracting State in which those activities are
exercised if the visit to that Contracting State is wholly or
substantially supported by public funds of the Government, a political
subdivision, a local authority or a statutory body of the other
Contracting State.

ARTICLE 18 Pensions

Subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) of Article 19 of this
Agreement:

pensions and other similar remuneration paid in consideration of past
employment or self-employment,

(b) any payments made under the social security legislation of either
Contracting State, and

(c) any annuity paid,

to an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State, and is
subject to tax in respect thereof in that State, shall be taxable only
in that State.

(2) The term "annuity" means a stated sum payable to an individual
periodically at stated times during his life or during a specified or
ascertainable period of time under an obligation to make the payments in
return for adequate and full consideration in money or money's worth.

ARTICLE 19 Government Service

Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration, other than a pension,
paid by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local
authority or a statutory body thereof to an individual in respect of
services rendered to that State, subdivision, authority or body shall be
taxable only in that State.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this
paragraph, such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration shall be
taxable only in the other Contracting State if the services are rendered
in that State and the individual is a resident of that State who:

is a national of that State; or

(ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of
rendering the services.

(2)

Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or
a political subdivision or a local authority or a statutory body thereof
to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State,
subdivision, authority or body shall be taxable only in that State.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this
paragraph, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting
State if the individual is a resident of and a national of that State.

(3) The provisions of Articles 15, 16 and 18 of this Agreement shall
apply to salaries, wages and other' similar remuneration, and to
pensions, in respect of services rendered in connection with a business
carried on by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local
authority or a statutory body thereof.

ARTICLE 20 Students and Trainees

Payments which a student or business apprentice who is or was
immediately before visiting a Contracting State a resident of the other
Contracting State and who is present in the first-mentioned State solely
for the purpose of his education or training receives for the purpose of
his maintenance, education or training shall not be taxed in that State,
provided that such payments arise from sources outside that State.

ARTICLE 22 Other Income

Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising,
not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this Agreement, shall be
taxable only in that State.

(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article shall not apply to
income, other than income from immovable property as defined in
paragraph (2) of Article 6 of this Agreement, if the recipient of such
income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in
the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated
therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services
from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect
of which the income is paid is effectively connected with such permanent
establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or
Article 14 of this Agreement, as the case may be, shall apply.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, where
an amount of income is paid to a resident of Singapore out of income
received by trustees or personal representatives who are residents of
the United Kingdom, that amount shall be treated as arising from the
same sources, and in the same proportions, as the income received by the
trustees or personal representatives out of which that amount is paid.
Any tax paid by the trustees or personal representatives in respect of
the income paid to the beneficiary shall be treated as if it had been
paid by the beneficiary.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article,
withdrawals made by a resident of the United Kingdom from his
Supplementary Retirement Scheme account under section 10L of the
Singapore Income Tax Act (Chapter 134) (revised edition 2008) may be
taxed in Singapore.

ARTICLE 23 Elimination of Double Taxation

Subject to the provisions of the law of the United Kingdom regarding the
allowance as a credit against United Kingdom tax of tax payable in a
territory outside the United Kingdom or, as the case may be, regarding
the exemption from United Kingdom tax of a dividend arising in a
territory outside the United Kingdom (which shall not affect the general
principle hereof):

Singapore tax payable under the laws of Singapore and in accordance with
this Agreement, whether directly or by deduction, on profits, income or
chargeable gains from sources within Singapore (excluding in the case of
a dividend tax payable in respect of the profits out of which the
dividend is paid) shall be allowed as a credit against any United
Kingdom tax computed by reference to the same profits, income or
chargeable gains by reference to which the Singapore tax is computed;

(b) a dividend which is paid by a company which is a resident of
Singapore to a company which is a resident of the United Kingdom shall
be exempted from United Kingdom tax, when the conditions for exemption
under the law of the United Kingdom are met;

(c) in the case of a dividend not exempted from tax under subparagraph
(b) above (because the conditions for exemption under the law of the
United Kingdom are not met) which is paid by a company which is a
resident of Singapore to a company which is a resident of the United
Kingdom and which controls directly or indirectly at least 10 percent of
the voting power in the company paying the dividend, the credit
mentioned in subparagraph (a) above shall also take into account the
Singapore tax payable by the company in respect of its profits out of
which such dividend is paid.

(2) In Singapore, double taxation shall be avoided as follows:

Where a resident of Singapore derives income from the United Kingdom
which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, may be taxed
in the United Kingdom, Singapore shall, subject to its laws regarding
the allowance as a credit against Singapore tax of tax payable in any
country other than Singapore, allow the United Kingdom tax paid, whether
directly or by deduction, as a credit against the Singapore tax payable
on the income of that resident. Where such income is a dividend paid by
a company which is a resident of the United Kingdom to a resident of
Singapore which is a company owning directly or indirectly not less than
10 percent of the share capital of the first-mentioned company, the
credit shall take into account the United Kingdom tax paid by that
company on the portion of its profits out of which the dividend is paid.

(b) Where a resident of Singapore derives income from the United
Kingdom, Singapore shall, subject to the conditions for exemption of
income received from outside Singapore provided for in the Singapore
Income Tax Act being satisfied, exempt such income from tax in
Singapore.

(3) For the purposes of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Article, profits,
income and capital gains owned by a resident of a Contracting State
which may be taxed in the other Contracting State in accordance with
this Agreement shall be deemed to arise from sources in that other
Contracting State.

ARTICLE 25 Non-Discrimination

Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other
Contracting State to any taxation or any requirement connected
therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and
connected requirements to which nationals of that other State in the
same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence, are or may
be subjected.

(2) The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a
Contracting State has in the other Contracting State shall not be less
favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on
enterprises of that other State carrying on the same activities.

(3) Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly
or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by one or more
residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the
first-mentioned State to any taxation or any requirement connected
therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and
connected requirements to which other similar enterprises of the
first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.

(4) Nothing in this Article shall be construed as obliging a contracting
State to grant to:

individual residents of the other Contracting State any personal
allowances, reliefs and reductions for tax purposes on account of civil
status or family responsibilities which it grants to its own residents;
or

(b) nationals of the other Contracting State those personal allowances,
reliefs and reductions for tax purposes which it grants to its own
nationals who are not resident in that Contracting State or to such
other persons as may be specified in the taxation laws of that
Contracting State.

(5) Where a Contracting State grants tax incentives exclusively to its
nationals designed to promote economic or social development in
accordance with its national policy and criteria, that limitation shall
not be construed as discrimination under this Article.

(6) The provisions of this Article shall apply to the taxes which are
the subject of this Agreement.

ARTICLE 26 Mutual Agreement Procedure

Where a resident of a Contracting State considers that the actions of
one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in
taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, he
may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the domestic law of those
States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting
State of which he is a resident or, if his case comes under paragraph
(1) of Article 25 of this Agreement, to that of the Contracting State of
which he is a national.

(2) The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to
it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive at a
satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the
competent authority of the other Contracting State, with a view to the
avoidance of taxation not in accordance with the Agreement.

(3) The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour
to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties or doubts arising as to
the interpretation or application of the Agreement. They may also
consult together for the elimination of double taxation in cases not
provided for in the Agreement.

(4) The competent authorities of the Contracting State may communicate
with each other directly for the purpose of reaching an agreement in the
sense of the preceding paragraphs.

ARTICLE 27 Exchange of Information

The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such
information as is foreseeably relevant for carrying out the provisions
of this Agreement or to the administration or enforcement of the
domestic laws concerning taxes of every kind and description imposed on
behalf of the Contracting States, or of their political subdivisions or
local authorities, insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to
the Agreement. The exchange of information is not restricted by Articles
1 and 2.

(2) Any information received under paragraph 1 by a Contracting State
shall be treated as secret in the same manner as information obtained
under the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to
persons or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies)
concerned with the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or
prosecution in respect of, the determination of appeals in relation to
the taxes referred to in paragraph 1, or the oversight of the above.
Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such
purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings
or in judicial decisions.

(3) In no case shall the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 be construed
so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation:

to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and
administrative practice of that or of the other Contracting State;

(b) to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in
the normal course of the administration of that or of the other
Contracting State;

(c) to supply information which would disclose any trade, business,
industrial, commercial or professional secret or trade process, or
information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy.

(4) If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance
with the provisions of this Article, the other Contracting State shall
use its information gathering measures to obtain the requested
information, even though that other State may not need such information
for its own tax purposes. The obligation contained in the preceding
sentence is subject to the limitations of paragraph 3 of this Article
but in no case shall such limitations be construed to permit a
Contracting State to decline to supply information solely because it has
no domestic interest in such information.

(5) In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 be construed to
permit a Contracting State to decline to supply information solely
because the information is held by a bank, other financial institution,
nominee or person acting in an agency or a fiduciary capacity or because
it relates to ownership interests in a person.

ARTICLE 28 Members of Diplomatic or Permanent Missions and Consular
Posts

Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the fiscal privileges of members
of diplomatic or permanent missions or consular posts under the general
rules of international law or under the provisions of special
agreements.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) of Article 4 of this
Agreement, an individual who is a member of a diplomatic or permanent
mission or consular post of a Contracting State or of any third State
which is situated in the other Contracting State or who is an official
of an international organisation, and any member of the family of such
an individual, shall not be deemed to be a resident of the other State
for the purposes of this Agreement if he is subject to tax on income or
capital gains in that other State only if he derives income or capital
gains from sources therein.

ARTICLE 29 Entry Into Force

Each of the Contracting States shall notify to the other the completion
of the procedures required by its law for the bringing into force of
this Agreement. This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of the
later of these notifications and shall thereupon have effect:

in the United Kingdom:

in respect of income tax and capital gains tax, for any year of
assessment beginning on or after 6th April in the calendar year next
following that in which the Agreement enters into force;

(ii) in respect of corporation tax, for any financial year beginning on
or after 1st April in the calendar year next following that in which the
Agreement enters into force;

(b) in Singapore:

in respect of Singapore tax for any year of assessment beginning on or
after 1st January in the second calendar year following that in which
the Agreement enters into force.

(2) The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of, Singapore
and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of
Fiscal Evasion with respect of Taxes on Income signed at Singapore on
1st December 1966 as amended by the Protocol signed at London on 21st
July 1975 (hereinafter referred to as the 1966 Agreement) shall
terminate and cease to be effective from the date upon which this
Agreement has effect in respect of the taxes to which this Agreement
applies in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (1) of this
Article.

ARTICLE 30 Termination

This Agreement shall remain in force until terminated by one of the
Contracting States. Either Contracting State may terminate the
Agreement, through diplomatic channels, by giving notice of termination
at least six months before the end of any calendar year beginning after
the expiry of five years from the date of entry into force of the
Agreement. In such event; the Agreement shall cease to have effect:

in the United Kingdom:

in respect of income tax and capital gains tax, for any year of
assessment beginning on or after 6th April in the calendar year next
following that in which the notice is given;

(ii) in respect of corporation tax, for any financial year beginning on
or after 1st April in the calendar year next following that in which the
notice is given;

(b) in Singapore:

in respect of Singapore tax for any year of assessment beginning on or
after 1st January in the second calendar year following that in which
the notice is given.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, duly authorised thereto by their
respective Governments, have signed this Agreement. Done in duplicate at
Singapore this twelfth day of February 1997.

For the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland: MALCOLM RIFKIND

For the Government of the Republic of Singapore: RICHARD HU

EXCHANGE OF NOTES

I. Singapore, February 12, 1997

YOUR EXCELLENCY: I have the honour to refer to the Agreement between the
Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
and the Government of the Republic of Singapore for the Avoidance of
Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to
Taxes on Income and Capital Gains which has been signed today and to
propose on behalf of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland that:

for the purposes of the Agreement a charity or pension fund created,
established and recognised for tax purposes in a Contracting State shall
be treated as a resident of that State.

(2) in relation to paragraph (3) of Article 8:

this provision shall not apply to interest which arises from the lending
of funds between associated enterprises.

(3) in relation to paragraph (1) of Article 17:

income referred to in this paragraph shall include income derived from
any personal activities exercised by a resident of one Contracting State
in the other Contracting State relating to his reputation as an
entertainer or sportsman.

(4) in relation to Article 18:

the term "annuity" refers to an annuity paid in recognition of past
employment services.

If the foregoing proposals are acceptable to the Government of the
Republic of Singapore, I have the honour to suggest that the present
Note and Your Excellency's reply to that effect should be regarded as
constituting an agreement between the two Governments in this matter,
which shall enter into force at the same time as the entry into force of
the Agreement.

MALCOLM RIFKIND

II. Singapore, February 12, 1997

YOUR EXCELLENCY: I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your
Note of today's date which reads as follows:

[As in Note I.]

I have further the honour to confirm that the Government of the Republic
of Singapore accepts the proposals contained in your Note and agrees
that the same and the present reply shall be regarded as constituting an
agreement between the two Governments in this matter, which shall enter
into force at the same time as the entry into force of the Agreement.

RICHARD HU

TREATY, INCOME, United Kingdom and United States, in-force (2001)

TREATY TYPE: INCOME

STATUS: IN-FORCE

SIGNING DATE: JUL 24, 2001 (Treaty)

ENTRY INTO FORCE DATE: MAR 31, 2003 (Treaty)

EFFECTIVE DATES: See Article 29 of the Treaty.

SCOPE: BILATERAL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH (Official)

AMENDED TREATY AVAILABLE: YES

TO LINK TO ADDITIONAL OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS, CLICK HERE:

CONVENTION BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN
IRELAND FOR THE AVOIDANCE OF DOUBLE TAXATION AND THE PREVENTION OF
FISCAL EVASION WITH RESPECT TO TAXES ON INCOME AND ON CAPITAL GAINS

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Desiring to
conclude a new Convention for the avoidance of double taxation and the
prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income and on
capital gains, Have agreed as follows:

ARTICLE 1 General Scope

Except as specifically provided herein, this Convention is applicable
only to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting
States.

(2) This Convention shall not restrict in any manner any benefit now or
hereafter accorded:

by the laws of either Contracting State; or

(b) by any other agreement between the Contracting States.

(3)

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 2 of
this Article:

any question arising as to the interpretation or application of this
Convention and, in particular, whether a taxation measure is within the
scope of this Convention, shall be determined exclusively in accordance
with the provisions of Article 26 (Mutual Agreement Procedure) of this
Convention; and

(ii) the provisions of Article II and Article XVII of the General
Agreement on Trade in Services shall not apply to a taxation measure
unless the competent authorities agree that the measure is not within
the scope of Article 25 (Non-Discrimination) of this Convention.

(b) For the purposes of this paragraph, a "measure" is a law,
regulation, rule, procedure, decision, administrative action, or any
similar provision or action.

(4) Notwithstanding any provision of this Convention except paragraph 5
of this Article, a Contracting State may tax its residents (as
determined under Article 4 (Residence)), and by reason of citizenship
may tax its citizens, as if this Convention had not come into effect.

(5) The provisions of paragraph 4 of this Article shall not affect:

the benefits conferred by a Contracting State under paragraph 2 of
Article 9 (Associated Enterprises), sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 1 and
paragraphs 3 and 5 of Article 17 (Pensions, Social Security, Annuities,
Alimony, and Child Support), paragraph 1 of Article 18 (Pension Schemes)
and Articles 24 (Relief From Double Taxation), 25 (Non-Discrimination),
and 26 (Mutual Agreement Procedure) of this Convention; and

(b) the benefits conferred by a Contracting State under paragraph 2 of
Article 18 (Pension Schemes) and Articles 19 (Government Service), 20
(Students), and 28 (Diplomatic Agents and Consular Officers) of this
Convention, upon individuals who are neither citizens of, nor have been
admitted for permanent residence in, that State.

(6) A former citizen or long-term resident whose loss of citizenship or
long-term resident status had as one of its principal purposes the
avoidance of tax (as defined under the laws of the Contracting State of
which the person was a citizen or long-term resident) shall be treated
for the purposes of paragraph 4 of this Article as a citizen of that
Contracting State but only for a period of 10 years following the loss
of such status. This paragraph shall apply only in respect of income
from sources within that Contracting State (including income deemed
under the domestic law of that State to arise from such sources).
Paragraph 4 of this Article shall not apply in the case of any former
citizen or long-term resident of a Contracting State who ceased to be a
citizen or long-term resident of that State at any time before February
6th, 1995.

(7) Where under any provision of this Convention income or gains arising
in one of the Contracting States are relieved from tax in that
Contracting State and, under the law in force in the other Contracting
State, a person, in respect of the said income or gains, is subject to
tax by reference to the amount thereof which is remitted to or received
in that other Contracting State and not by reference to the full amount
thereof, then the relief to be allowed under this Convention in the
first-mentioned Contracting State shall apply only to so much of the
income or gains as is taxed in the other Contracting State.

(8) An item of income, profit or gain derived through a person that is
fiscally transparent under the laws of either Contracting State shall be
considered to be derived by a resident of a Contracting State to the
extent that the item is treated for the purposes of the taxation law of
such Contracting State as the income, profit or gain of a resident.

ARTICLE 2 Taxes Covered

This Convention shall apply to taxes on income and on capital gains
imposed on behalf of a Contracting State irrespective of the manner in
which they are levied.

(2) There shall be regarded as taxes on income and on capital gains all
taxes imposed on total income, or on elements of income, including taxes
on gains from the alienation of property.

(3) The existing taxes to which this Convention shall apply are:

in the case of the United States:

the Federal income taxes imposed by the Internal Revenue Code (but
excluding social security taxes); and

(ii) the Federal excise taxes imposed on insurance policies issued by
foreign insurers and with respect to private foundations;

(b) in the case of the United Kingdom:

the income tax;

(ii) the capital gains tax;

(iii) the corporation tax; and

(iv) the petroleum revenue tax.

(4) This Convention shall apply also to any identical or substantially
similar taxes that are imposed after the date of signature of this
Convention in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The
competent authorities of the Contracting States shall notify each other
of any changes that have been made in their respective taxation or other
laws that significantly affect their obligations under this Convention.

ARTICLE 3 General Definitions

For the purposes of this Convention, unless the context otherwise
requires:

the term "person" includes an individual, an estate, a trust, a
partnership, a company, and any other body of persons;

(b) the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity that is
treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;

(c) the term "enterprise" applies to the carrying on of any business;

(d) the term "business" includes the performance of professional
services and of other activities of an independent character;

(e) the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the
other Contracting State" mean respectively an enterprise carried on by a
resident of a Contracting State, and an enterprise carried on by a
resident of the other Contracting State;

(f) the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or
aircraft, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between
places in the other Contracting State;

(g) the term "competent authority" means:

in the United States: the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate; and

(ii) in the United Kingdom: the Commissioners of Inland Revenue or their
authorised representative;

(h) the term "United States" means the United States of America, and
includes the states thereof and the District of Columbia; such term also
includes the territorial sea thereof and the sea bed and sub-soil of the
submarine areas adjacent to that territorial sea, over which the United
States exercises sovereign rights in accordance with international law;
the term, however, does not include Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands,
Guam or any other United States possession or territory;

the term "United Kingdom" means Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
including any area outside the territorial sea of the United Kingdom
which in accordance with international law has been or may hereafter be
designated, under the laws of the United Kingdom concerning the
Continental Shelf, as an area within which the rights of the United
Kingdom with respect to the sea bed and sub-soil and their natural
resources may be exercised;

(j) the term "national" of a Contracting State, means:

in relation to the United States,

any individual possessing the citizenship of the United States; and

(b) any legal person, partnership, association or other entity deriving
its status as such from the laws in force in the United States;

(ii) in relation to the United Kingdom,

any British citizen, or any British subject not possessing the
citizenship of any other Commonwealth country or territory, provided he
has the right of abode in the United Kingdom; and

(b) any legal person, partnership, association or other entity deriving
its status as such from the laws in force in the United Kingdom;

(k) the term "qualified governmental entity" means:

a Contracting State, or a political subdivision or local authority of a
Contracting State;

(ii) a person that is wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by a
Contracting State or a political subdivision or local authority of a
Contracting State, provided

it is organised under the laws of the Contracting State;

(b) its earnings are credited to its own account with no portion of its
income inuring to the benefit of any private person;

(c) its assets vest in the Contracting State, political subdivision or
local authority upon dissolution; and

(d) it does not carry on a business;

(l) the term "Contracting State" means the United States or the United
Kingdom, as the context requires;

(m) the term "real property" means any interest (other than an interest
solely as a creditor) in land, crops or timber growing on land, mines,
wells and other places of extraction of natural resources, as well as
any fixture built on land (buildings, structures, etc.) and other
property considered real or immovable property under the law of the
Contracting State in which the property in question is situated. The
term shall in any case include livestock and equipment used in
agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law
respecting landed property apply, usufruct of real property and rights
to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the working of, or
the right to work, mineral deposits and other natural resources; ships,
boats and aircraft shall not be regarded as real property.

(n) the term "conduit arrangement" means a transaction or series of
transactions:

which is structured in such a way that a resident of a Contracting State
entitled to the benefits of this Convention receives an item of income
arising in the other Contracting State but that resident pays, directly
or indirectly, all or substantially all of that income (at any time or
in any form) to another person who is not a resident of either
Contracting State and who, if it received that item of income direct
from the other Contracting State, would not be entitled under a
convention for the avoidance of double taxation between the state in
which that other person is resident and the Contracting State in which
the income arises, or otherwise, to benefits with respect to that item
of income which are equivalent to, or more favourable than, those
available under this Convention to a resident of a Contracting State;
and

(ii) which has as its main purpose, or one of its main purposes,
obtaining such increased benefits as are available under this
Convention.

(o) the term "pension scheme" means any plan, scheme, fund, trust or
other arrangement established in a Contracting State which is:

generally exempt from income taxation in that State; and

(ii) operated principally to administer or provide pension or retirement
benefits or to earn income for the benefit of one or more such
arrangements.

(2) As regards the application of this Convention at any time by a
Contracting State, any term not defined therein shall, unless the
context otherwise requires, or the competent authorities agree on a
common meaning pursuant to the provisions of Article 26 (Mutual
Agreement Procedure) of this Convention, have the meaning which it has
at that time under the law of that State for the purposes of the taxes
to which this Convention applies, any meaning under the applicable tax
laws of that State prevailing over a meaning given to the term under
other laws of that State.

ARTICLE 4 Residence

Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article, the term
"resident of a Contracting State" means, for the purposes of this
Convention, any person who, under the laws of that State, is liable to
tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, citizenship, place of
management, place of incorporation, or any other criterion of a similar
nature. This term, however, does not include any person who is liable to
tax in that State in respect only of income from sources in that State
or of profits attributable to a permanent establishment in that State.

(2) An individual who is a United States citizen or an alien admitted to
the United States for permanent residence (a "green card" holder) is a
resident of the United States only if the individual has a substantial
presence, permanent home or habitual abode in the United States and if
that individual is not a resident of a State other than the United
Kingdom for the purposes of a double taxation convention between that
State and the United Kingdom.

(3) The term "resident of a Contracting State" includes:

a pension scheme;

(b) a plan, scheme, fund, trust, company or other arrangement
established in a Contracting State that is operated exclusively to
administer or provide employee benefits and that, by reason of its
nature as such, is generally exempt from income taxation in that State;

(c) an organisation that is established exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, artistic, cultural, or educational purposes and
that is a resident of a Contracting State according to its laws,
notwithstanding that all or part of its income or gains may be exempt
from tax under the domestic law of that State; and

(d) a qualified governmental entity that is, is a part of, or is
established in, that State.

(4) Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, an
individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his status
shall be determined as follows:

he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a
permanent home available to him; if he has a permanent home available to
him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the
State with which his personal and economic relations are closer (centre
of vital interests);

(b) if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be
determined, or if he does not have a permanent home available to him in
either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in
which he has an habitual abode;

(c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he
shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State of which he is a
national;

(d) if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the
competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to
settle the question by mutual agreement.

(5) Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article a
person other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting
States, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall
endeavour to determine by mutual agreement the mode of application of
this Convention to that person. If the competent authorities do not
reach such an agreement, that person shall not be entitled to claim any
benefit provided by this Convention, except those provided by paragraph
4 of Article 24 (Relief from Double Taxation), Article 25
(Non-Discrimination) and Article 26 (Mutual Agreement Procedure).

(6) A marriage before January 1st, 1974 between a woman who is a United
States national and a man domiciled within the United Kingdom shall be
deemed to have taken place on January 1st, 1974 for the purpose of
determining her domicile for United Kingdom tax purposes, on or after
the date on which this Convention first has effect in relation to her.

ARTICLE 5 Permanent Establishment

For the purposes of this Convention, the term "permanent establishment"
means a fixed place of business through which the business of an
enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.

(2) The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:

a place of management;

(b) a branch;

(c) an office;

(d) a factory;

(e) a workshop; and

(f) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry, or any other place of
extraction of natural resources.

(3) A building site or construction or installation project constitutes
a permanent establishment only if it lasts for more than twelve months.

(4) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term
"permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to include:

the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage, display or
delivery of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise;

(b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise solely for the purpose of storage, display or delivery;

(c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by another enterprise;

(d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose
of purchasing goods or merchandise, or of collecting information, for
the enterprise;

(e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose
of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other activity of a preparatory
or auxiliary character;

(f) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any
combination of the activities mentioned in sub-paragraphs (a) to (e) of
this paragraph, provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of
business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory or
auxiliary character.

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this
Article, where a personother than an agent of an independent status to
whom paragraph 6 of this Article appliesis acting on behalf of an
enterprise and has and habitually exercises in a Contracting State an
authority to conclude contracts that are binding on the enterprise, that
enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in that
State in respect of any activities that the person undertakes for the
enterprise, unless the activities of such person are limited to those
mentioned in paragraph 4 of this Article that, if exercised through a
fixed place of business, would not make this fixed place of business a
permanent establishment under the provisions of that paragraph.

(6) An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment
in a Contracting State merely because it carries on business in that
State through a broker, general commission agent, or any other agent of
an independent status, provided that such person is acting in the
ordinary course of his business as an independent agent.

(7) The fact that a company that is a resident of a Contracting State
controls or is controlled by a company that is a resident of the other
Contracting State, or that carries on business in that other State
(whether through a permanent establishment or otherwise), shall not
constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.

ARTICLE 6 Income From Real Property

Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from real property,
including income from agriculture or forestry, situated in the other
Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.

(2) The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply to income
derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of real
property.

(3) The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall also
apply to the income from real property of an enterprise.

ARTICLE 7 Business Profits

The business profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be
taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on business in
the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated
therein. If the enterprise carries on business as aforesaid, the
business profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but
only so much of them as are attributable to that permanent
establishment.

(2) Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article, where an
enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other
Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein,
there shall in each Contracting State be attributed to that permanent
establishment the business profits that it might be expected to make if
it were a distinct and separate enterprise engaged in the same or
similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing
wholly independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent
establishment. For this purpose, the business profits to be attributed
to the permanent establishment shall include only the profits derived
from the assets used, risks assumed and activities performed by the
permanent establishment.

(3) In determining the business profits of a permanent establishment,
there shall be allowed as deductions expenses that are incurred for the
purposes of the permanent establishment, including executive and general
administrative expenses so incurred, whether in the State in which the
permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere.

(4) For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be
attributed to the permanent establishment shall be determined by the
same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to
the contrary.

(5) The United States excise tax on insurance policies issued by foreign
insurers shall not be imposed on insurance or reinsurance policies, the
premiums on which are the receipts of a business of insurance carried on
by an enterprise of the United Kingdom. However, if such policies are
entered into as part of a conduit arrangement, the United States may
impose excise tax on those policies, unless the premiums in respect of
those policies are, or are part of, the income of a permanent
establishment that the enterprise of the United Kingdom has in the
United States.

(6) Where business profits include items of income that are dealt with
separately in other Articles of this Convention, then the provisions of
those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.

(7) In applying this Article, paragraph 5 of Article 10 (Dividends),
paragraph 3 of Article 11 (Interest), paragraph 3 of Article 12
(Royalties), and paragraph 2 of Article 22 (Other Income) of this
Convention, income or profits attributable to a permanent establishment
may, notwithstanding that the permanent establishment has ceased to
exist, be taxed in the Contracting State in which it was situated.

ARTICLE 8 Shipping and Air Transport

Profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State from the operation of
ships or aircraft in international traffic shall be taxable only in that
State.

(2) For the purposes of this Article, profits from the operation of
ships or aircraft include profits derived from the rental of ships or
aircraft on a full (time or voyage) basis. They also include profits
from the rental of ships or aircraft on a bareboat basis if the rental
income is incidental to profits from the operation of ships or aircraft
in international traffic. Profits derived by an enterprise from the
inland transport of property or passengers within either Contracting
State shall be treated as profits from the operation of ships or
aircraft in international traffic if such transport is undertaken as
part of international traffic conducted by such enterprise.

(3) Profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State from the use,
maintenance, or rental of containers (including trailers, barges and
related equipment for the transport of containers) used in international
traffic shall be taxable only in that State.

(4) The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Article shall also
apply to profits from participation in a pool, a joint business, or an
international operating agency.

ARTICLE 9 Associated Enterprises

Where:

an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly
in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of the other
Contracting State; or

(b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the
management, control, or capital of an enterprise of a Contracting State
and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,

and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two
enterprises in their commercial or financial relations that differ from
those that would be made between independent enterprises, then any
profits that, but for those conditions, would have accrued to one of the
enterprises, but by reason of those conditions have not so accrued, may
be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.

(2) Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise
of that State, and taxes accordingly, profits on which an enterprise of
the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State,
and the other Contracting State agrees that the profits so included are
profits that would have accrued to the enterprise of the first-mentioned
State if the conditions made between the two enterprises had been those
that would have been made between independent enterprises, then that
other State shall make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the
tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such adjustment,
due regard shall be paid to the other provisions of this Convention and
the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall if necessary
consult each other.

ARTICLE 10 Dividends

Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State
to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
State.

(2) However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State
of which the company paying the dividends is a resident and according to
the laws of that State, but if the dividends are beneficially owned by a
resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not
exceed, except as otherwise provided,

5 per cent. of the gross amount of the dividends if the beneficial owner
is a company that owns shares representing directly or indirectly at
least 10 per cent. of the voting power of the company paying the
dividends;

(b) 15 per cent. of the gross amount of the dividends in all other
cases.

This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect
of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article,
dividends shall not be taxed in the Contracting State of which the
company paying the dividends is a resident if the beneficial owner of
the dividends is a resident of the other Contracting State and either:

a company that has owned shares representing 80 per cent. or more of the
voting power of the company paying the dividends for a 12-month period
ending on the date the dividend is declared, and that:

owned shares representing, directly or indirectly, at least 80 per cent.
of the voting power of the company paying the dividends prior to October
1st, 1998; or

(ii) is a qualified person by reason of sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph 2
of Article 23 (Limitation on Benefits) of this Convention; or

(iii) is entitled to benefits with respect to the dividends under
paragraph 3 or paragraph 6 of that Article; or

(b) a pension scheme, provided that such dividends are not derived from
the carrying on of a business, directly or indirectly, by such pension
scheme.

(4) Sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 of this Article
shall not apply in the case of dividends paid by a pooled investment
vehicle which is a resident of a Contracting State. Sub-paragraph (b) of
paragraph 2 of this Article shall apply in the case of dividends paid by
a pooled investment vehicle, the assets of which consist wholly or
mainly of shares, securities or currencies or derivative contracts
relating to shares, securities or currencies. In the case of dividends
paid by a pooled investment vehicle not described in the preceding
sentence, sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 2 of this Article shall apply
only if:

the beneficial owner of the dividends is an individual holding an
interest of not more than 10 per cent. in the pooled investment vehicle;

(b) the dividends are paid with respect to a class of stock that is
publicly traded and the beneficial owner of the dividends is a person
holding an interest of not more than 5 per cent. of any class of the
stock of the pooled investment vehicle; or

(c) the beneficial owner of the dividends is a person holding an
interest of not more than 10 per cent. in the pooled investment vehicle
and that vehicle is diversified.

(5) The previous provisions of this Article shall not apply if the
beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a Contracting
State, carries on business in the other Contracting State, of which the
payer is a resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein,
and the dividends are attributable to such permanent establishment. In
such case, the provisions of Article 7 (Business Profits) of this
Convention shall apply.

(6) A Contracting State may not impose any tax on dividends paid by a
company which is a resident of the other Contracting State, except
insofar as the dividends are paid to a resident of the first-mentioned
State or the dividends are attributable to a permanent establishment
situated in that State, nor may it impose tax on a company's
undistributed profits, except as provided in paragraph 7 of this
Article, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits consist
wholly or partly of profits or income arising in that State.

(7) A company that is a resident of a Contracting State and that has a
permanent establishment in the other Contracting State, or that is
subject to tax in that other State on a net basis on its income or gains
that may be taxed in that other State under Article 6 (Income from Real
Property) or under paragraph 1 of Article 13 (Gains) of this Convention,
may be subject in that other State to a tax in addition to any tax that
may be imposed by that other State in accordance with the other
provisions of this Convention. Such tax, however, may be imposed on only
the portion of the business profits of the company attributable to the
permanent establishment, and the portion of the income or gains referred
to in the preceding sentence that is subject to tax under Article 6 or
under paragraph 1 of Article 13, that, in the case of the United States,
represents the dividend equivalent amount of such profits, income or
gains and, in the case of the United Kingdom, is an amount that is
analogous to the dividend equivalent amount. This paragraph shall not
apply in the case of a company which:

prior to October 1st, 1998 was engaged in activities giving rise to
profits attributable to that permanent establishment or to income or
gains to which the provisions of Article 6 or, as the case may be,
paragraph 1 of Article 13 apply;

(b) is a qualified person by reason of sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph 2
of Article 23 (Limitation on Benefits) of this Convention; or

(c) is entitled to benefits under paragraph 3 or paragraph 6 of that
Article with respect to an item of income, profit or gain described in
this paragraph.

(8) The additional tax referred to in paragraph 7 of this Article may
not be imposed at a rate in excess of the rate specified in
sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 2 of this Article.

(9) The provisions of this Article shall not apply in respect of any
dividend paid under, or as part of, a conduit arrangement.

(10) For the purposes of this Article:

the term "dividends" means income from shares or other rights, not being
debt-claims, participating in profits, as well as income from other
corporate rights and any other item which, under the laws of the
Contracting State of which the company paying the dividend is a
resident, is treated as a dividend or a distribution of a company;

(b) the term "pooled investment vehicle" means a person:

whose assets consist wholly or mainly of real property, or of shares,
securities or currencies, or of derivative contracts relating to shares,
securities or currencies or real property;

(ii) whose gross income consists wholly or mainly of dividends,
interests, gains from the alienation of assets and rents and other
income and gains from the holding and alienation of real property; and

(iii) which, in respect of its income, profits or gains, is exempt from,
or is not chargeable to, tax in the State of which it is a resident, or
is subject to tax at a special rate in that State, or which is entitled
to a deduction for dividends paid to its shareholders in computing the
amount of its income, profits or gains;

(c) a pooled investment vehicle is "diversified" if the value of no
single interest in real property exceeds 10 per cent. of the pooled
investment vehicle's total interests in real property. For the purposes
of this rule, foreclosure property shall not be considered an interest
in real property. Where a pooled investment vehicle holds an interest in
a partnership, it shall be treated as owning directly a proportion of
the partnership's interests in real property corresponding to the
proportion of its interest in the partnership.

ARTICLE 11 Interest

Interest arising in a Contracting State and beneficially owned by a
resident of the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in that
other State.

(2) The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from
debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by mortgage, and
whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits,
and, in particular, income from government securities and income from
bonds or debentures, including premiums or prizes attaching to such
securities, bonds or debentures, and all other income that is subjected
to the same taxation treatment as income from money lent by the taxation
law of the Contracting State in which the income arises. Income dealt
with in Article 10 (Dividends) of this Convention and penalty charges
for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purposes of
this Article.

(3) The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall not apply if the
beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a Contracting
State, carries on business in the other Contracting State, in which the
interest arises, through a permanent establishment situated therein, and
the interest is attributable to such permanent establishment. In such
case, the provisions of Article 7 (Business Profits) of this Convention
shall apply.

(4) Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the
beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the
amount of the interest exceeds, for whatever reason, the amount which
would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the
absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply
only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the
payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each State, due
regard being had to the other provisions of this Convention.

(5)

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, interest
paid by a resident of a Contracting State and determined by reference to
receipts, sales, income, profits or other cash flow of the debtor or a
related person, to any change in the value of any property of the debtor
or a related person or to any dividend, partnership distribution or
similar payment made by the debtor to a related person, may also be
taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises, and according to the
laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner is a resident of the
other Contracting State the gross amount of the interest may be taxed at
a rate not exceeding the rate prescribed in sub-paragraph (b) of
paragraph 2 of Article 10 (Dividends) of this Convention.

(b) Sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply to any interest
solely by reason of the fact that it is paid under an arrangement the
terms of which provide:

that the amount of interest payable shall be reduced in the event of an
improvement in the factors by reference to which the amount of interest
payable is determined; or

(ii) that the amount of interest payable shall be increased in the event
of a deterioration in the factors by reference to which the amount of
interest payable is determined.

(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, a
Contracting State may tax, in accordance with its domestic law, interest
paid with respect to the ownership interests in a vehicle used for the
securitisation of real estate mortgages or other assets, to the extent
that the amount of interest paid exceeds the return on comparable debt
instruments as specified by the domestic law of that State.

(7) The provisions of this Article shall not apply in respect of any
interest paid under, or as part of, a conduit arrangement.

ARTICLE 12 Royalties

Royalties arising in a Contracting State and beneficially owned by a
resident of the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in that
other State.

(2) The term "royalties" as used in this Article means:

any consideration for the use of, or the right to use, any copyright of
literary, artistic, scientific or other work (including computer
software and cinematographhic films) including works reproduced on audio
or video tapes or disks or any other means of image or sound
reproduction, any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret
formula or process, or other like right or property, or for information
concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience; and

(b) any gain derived from the alienation of any right or property
described in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, to the extent that the
amount of such gain is contingent on the productivity, use, or
disposition of the right or property.

(3) The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall not apply if the
beneficial owner of the royalties, being a resident of a Contracting
State, carries on business in the other Contracting State, in which the
royalties arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, and
the royalties are attributable to such permanent establishment. In such
case, the provisions of Article 7 (Business Profits) of this Convention
shall apply.

(4) Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the
beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the
amount of the royalties paid exceeds, for whatever reason, the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner
in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article
shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess
part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each
Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this
Convention.

(5) The provisions of this Article shall not apply in respect of any
royalty paid under, or as part of, a conduit arrangement.

ARTICLE 13 Gains

Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State that are attributable
to the alienation of real property situated in the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other State.

(2) For the purposes of this Article the term "real property situated in
the other Contracting State" shall include:

rights to assets to be produced by the exploration or exploitation of
the sea bed and sub-soil of that other State and their natural
resources, including rights to interests in or the benefit of such
assets;

(b) where that other State is the United States, a United States real
property interest; and

(c) where that other State is the United Kingdom:

shares, including rights to acquire shares, other than shares in which
there is regular trading on a stock exchange, deriving their value or
the greater part of their value directly or indirectly from real
property situated in the United Kingdom; and

(ii) an interest in a partnership or trust to the extent that the assets
of the partnership or trust consist of real property situated in the
United Kingdom, or of shares referred to in clause (i) of this
sub-paragraph.

(3) Gains from the alienation of property (other than real property)
forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment that
an enterprise of a Contracting State has or had in the other Contracting
State, including gains from the alienation of such a permanent
establishment (alone or with the whole enterprise), may be taxed in that
other State, whether or not that permanent establishment exists at the
time of the alienation.

(4) Gains derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the
alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international traffic by the
enterprise, or of containers used in international traffic, or of
property (other than real property) pertaining to the operation or use
of such ships, aircraft or containers, shall be taxable only in that
State.

(5) Gains from the alienation of any property other than property
referred to in the preceding paragraphs of this Article shall be taxable
only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.

(6) The provisions of paragraph 5 of this Article shall not affect the
right of a Contracting State to levy according to its law a tax on gains
from the alienation of any property derived by an individual who is a
resident of the other Contracting State and has been a resident of the
first-mentioned Contracting State at any time during the six years
immediately preceding the alienation of the property.

ARTICLE 14 Income From Employment

Subject to the provisions of Articles 15 (Directors' Fees), 17
(Pensions, Social Security, Annuities, Alimony, and Child Support) and
19 (Government Service) of this Convention, salaries, wages, and other
similar remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in
respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the
employment is exercised in the other Contracting State. If the
employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrom
may be taxed in that other State.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article,
remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of
an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable
only in the first-mentioned State if:

the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not
exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any twelve-month period
commencing or ending in the taxable year or year of assessment
concerned;

(b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not
a resident of the other State; and

(c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment which the
employer has in the other State.

(3) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article,
remuneration described in paragraph 1 of this Article that is derived by
a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment as a
member of the regular complement of a ship or aircraft operated in
international traffic shall be taxable only in that State.

ARTICLE 15 Directors' Fees

Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a
Contracting State for services rendered in the other Contracting State
in his capacity as a member of the board of directors of a company that
is a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
State.

ARTICLE 16 Entertainers and Sportsmen

Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an entertainer,
such as a theatre, motion picture, radio, or television artiste, or a
musician, or as a sportsman, from his personal activities as such
exercised in the other Contracting State, which income would be exempt
from tax in that other State under the provisions of Article 7 (Business
Profits) or 14 (Income from Employment) of this Convention, may be taxed
in that other State, except where the amount of the gross receipts
derived by that resident, including expenses reimbursed to him or borne
on his behalf, from such activities does not exceed twenty thousand
United States dollars ($20,000) or its equivalent in pounds sterling for
the taxable year or year of assessment concerned.

(2) Income in respect of activities exercised by an entertainer or a
sportsman in his capacity as such which accrues not to the entertainer
or sportsman himself but to another person may, notwithstanding the
provisions of Article 7 (Business Profits) or 14 (Income from
Employment) of this Convention, be taxed in the Contracting State in
which the activities of the entertainer or sportsman are exercised,
unless that other person establishes that neither the entertainer or
sportsman nor persons related thereto participate directly or indirectly
in the profits of that other person in any manner, including the receipt
of deferred remuneration, bonuses, fees, dividends, partnership
distributions or other distributions.

ARTICLE 17 Pensions, Social Security, Annuities, Alimony, and Child
Support

Pensions and other similar remuneration beneficially owned by a resident
of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State.

(b) Notwithstanding sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, the amount of
any such pension or remuneration paid from a pension scheme established
in the other Contracting State that would be exempt from taxation in
that other State if the beneficial owner were a resident thereof shall
be exempt from taxation in the first-mentioned State.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, a
lump-sum payment derived from a pension scheme established in a
Contracting State and beneficially owned by a resident of the other
Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article,
payments made by a Contracting State under the provisions of the social
security or similar legislation of that State to a resident of the other
Contracting State shall be taxable only in that other State.

(4) Any annuity derived and beneficially owned by an individual ( "the
annuitant") who is a resident of a Contracting State shall be taxable
only in that State. The term "annuity" as used in this paragraph means a
stated sum paid periodically at stated times during the life of the
annuitant, or during a specified or ascertainable period of time, under
an obligation to make the payments in return for adequate and full
consideration (other than in return for services rendered).

(5) Periodic payments, made pursuant to a written separation agreement
or a decree of divorce, separate maintenance, or compulsory support,
including payments for the support of a child, paid by a resident of a
Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State, shall be
exempt from tax in both Contracting States, except that, if the payer is
entitled to relief from tax for such payments in the first-mentioned
State, such payments shall be taxable only in the other State.

ARTICLE 18 Pension Schemes

Where an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State is a member
or beneficiary of, or participant in, a pension scheme established in
the other Contracting State, income earned by the pension scheme may be
taxed as income of that individual only when, and, subject to paragraphs
1 and 2 of Article 17 (Pensions, Social Security, Annuities, Alimony,
and Child Support) of this Convention, to the extent that, it is paid
to, or for the benefit of, that individual from the pension scheme (and
not transferred to another pension scheme).

(2) Where an individual who is a member or beneficiary of, or
participant in, a pension scheme established in a Contracting State
exercises an employment or self-employment in the other Contracting
State:

contributions paid by or on behalf of that individual to the pension
scheme during the period that he exercises an employment or
self-employment in the other State shall be deductible (or excludable)
in computing his taxable income in that other State; and

(b) any benefits accrued under the pension scheme, or contributions made
to the pension scheme by or on behalf of the individual's employer,
during that period shall not be treated as part of the employee's
taxable income and any such contributions shall be allowed as a
deduction in computing the business profits of his employer in that
other State.

The reliefs available under this paragraph shall not exceed the reliefs
that would be allowed by the other State to residents of that State for
contributions to, or benefits accrued under, a pension scheme
established in that State.

(3) The provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article shall not apply
unless:

contributions by or on behalf of the individual, or by or on behalf of
the individual's employer, to the pension scheme (or to another similar
pension scheme for which the first-mentioned pension scheme was
substituted) were made before the individual began to exercise an
employment or self-employment in the other State; and

(b) the competent authority of the other State has agreed that the
pension scheme generally corresponds to a pension scheme established in
that other State.

(4) Where, under sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 2 of this Article,
contributions to a pension scheme are deductible (or excludable) in
computing an individual's taxable income in a Contracting State and,
under the laws in force in that State, the individual is subject to tax
in that State, in respect of income, profits or gains, by reference to
the amount thereof which is remitted to or received in that State and
not by reference to the full amount thereof, then the relief that would
otherwise be available to that individual under that sub-paragraph in
respect of such contributions shall be reduced to an amount that bears
the same proportion to that relief as the amount of the income, profits
or gains in respect of which the individual is subject to tax in that
State bears to the amount of the income, profits or gains in respect of
which he would be subject to tax if he were so subject in respect of the
full amount thereof and not only in respect of the amount remitted to or
received in that State.

(5)

Where a citizen of the United States who is a resident of the United
Kingdom exercises an employment in the United Kingdom the income from
which is taxable in the United Kingdom and is borne by an employer who
is a resident of the United Kingdom or by a permanent establishment
situated in the United Kingdom, and the individual is a member or
beneficiary of, or participant in, a pension scheme established in the
United Kingdom,

contributions paid by or on behalf of that individual to the pension
scheme during the period that he exercises the employment in the United
Kingdom, and that are attributable to the employment, shall be
deductible (or excludable) in computing his taxable income in the United
States; and

(ii) any benefits accrued under the pension scheme, or contributions
made to the pension scheme by or on behalf of the individual's employer,
during that period, and that are attributable to the employment, shall
not be treated as part of the employee's taxable income in computing his
taxable income in the United States.

This paragraph shall apply only to the extent that the contributions or
benefits qualify for tax relief in the United Kingdom.

(b) The reliefs available under this paragraph shall not exceed the
reliefs that would be allowed by the United States to its residents for
contributions to, or benefits accrued under, a generally corresponding
pension scheme established in the United States.

(c) For purposes of determining an individual's eligibility to
participate in and receive tax benefits with respect to a pension scheme
established in the United States, contributions made to, or benefits
accrued under, a pension scheme established in the United Kingdom shall
be treated as contributions or benefits under a generally corresponding
pension scheme established in the United States to the extent reliefs
are available to the individual under this paragraph.

(d) This paragraph shall not apply unless the competent authority of the
United States has agreed that the pension scheme generally corresponds
to a pension scheme established in the United States.

ARTICLE 19 Government Service

Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 (Income from Employment),
15 (Directors' Fees) and 16 (Entertainers and Sportsmen) of this
Convention:

salaries, wages and other similar remuneration, other than a pension,
paid from the public funds of a Contracting State or a political
subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in respect of
services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall,
subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, be
taxable only in that State;

(b) such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration, however, shall
be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the services are
rendered in that State and the individual is a resident of that State
who:

is a national of that State; or

(ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of
rendering the services.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 17
(Pensions, Social Security, Annuities, Alimony, and Child Support) of
this Convention:

any pension paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State or
a political subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in
respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority
shall, subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph,
be taxable only in that State;

(b) such pension, however, shall be taxable only in the other
Contracting State if the individual is a resident of, and a national of,
that State.

(3) The provisions of Articles 14 (Income from Employment), 15
(Directors' Fees), 16 (Entertainers and Sportsmen) and 17 (Pensions,
Social Security, Annuities, Alimony, and Child Support) of this
Convention shall apply to salaries, wages and other similar
remuneration, and to pensions, in respect of services rendered in
connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a
political subdivision or a local authority thereof.

ARTICLE 20 Students

Payments received by a student or business apprentice who is, or was
immediately before visiting a Contracting State, a resident of the other
Contracting State, and who is present in the first-mentioned State for
the purpose of his full-time education at a university, college or other
recognised educational institution of a similar nature, or for his
full-time training, shall not be taxed in that State, provided that such
payments arise outside that State, and are for the purpose of his
maintenance, education or training. The exemption from tax provided by
this Article shall apply to a business apprentice only for a period of
time not exceeding one year from the date he first arrives in the
first-mentioned Contracting State for the purpose of his training.

ARTICLE 21 Offshore Exploration and Exploitation Activities

The provisions of this Article shall apply notwithstanding any other
provision of this Convention where activities are carried on offshore in
a Contracting State in connection with the exploration (hereinafter
called "exploration activities") or exploitation (hereinafter called
"exploitation activities") of the sea bed and sub-soil and their natural
resources situated in that State.

(2) An enterprise of a Contracting State which carries on exploration
activities or exploitation activities in the other Contracting State
shall, subject to paragraph 3 of this Article, be deemed to be carrying
on business in that other State through a permanent establishment
situated therein.

(3) Exploration activities which are carried on by an enterprise of a
Contracting State in the other Contracting State for a period or periods
not exceeding in the aggregate 30 days within any period of twelve
months shall not constitute the carrying on of business through a
permanent establishment situated therein. For the purposes of
determining such period or periods:

where an enterprise of a Contracting State carrying on exploration
activities in the other Contracting State is associated with another
enterprise carrying on substantially similar exploration activities
there, the former enterprise shall be deemed to be carrying on all such
activities of the latter enterprise, except to the extent that those
activities are carried on at the same time as its own activities;

(b) an enterprise shall be regarded as associated with another
enterprise if one participates directly or indirectly in the management,
control or capital of the other or if the same persons participate
directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of both
enterprises.

(4) Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a resident
of a Contracting State from an employment in respect of exploration
activities or exploitation activities carried on in the other
Contracting State may be taxed in that other State, to the extent that
the duties are performed offshore in that other State. However, income
derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of such
employment performed in the other Contracting State shall not be taxable
in that other State if the employment is performed in that other State
for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 30 days within
any period of twelve months.

ARTICLE 22 Other Income

Items of income beneficially owned by a resident of a Contracting State,
wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this
Convention (other than income paid out of trusts or the estates of
deceased persons in the course of administration) shall be taxable only
in that State.

(2) The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall not apply to
income, other than income from real property, if the beneficial owner of
the income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business
in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment
situated therein, and the income is attributable to such permanent
establishment. In such case, the provisions of Article 7 (Business
Profits) of this Convention shall apply.

(3) Where, by reason of a special relationship between the resident
referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and some other person, or
between both of them and some third person, the amount of the income
referred to in that paragraph exceeds the amount (if any) which would
have been agreed upon between them in the absence of such relationship,
the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned
amount. In such a case, the excess part of the income shall remain
taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard
being had to the other applicable provisions of this Convention.

(4) The provisions of this Article shall not apply in respect of any
income paid under, or as part of, a conduit arrangement.

ARTICLE 23 Limitation on Benefits

Except as otherwise provided in this Article, a resident of a
Contracting State that derives income, profits or gains from the other
Contracting State shall be entitled to all the benefits of this
Convention otherwise accorded to residents of a Contracting State only
if such resident is a "qualified person" as defined in paragraph 2 of
this Article and satisfies any other specified conditions for the
obtaining of such benefits.

(2) A resident of a Contracting State is a qualified person for a
taxable or chargeable period only if such resident is either:

an individual;

(b) a qualified governmental entity;

(c) a company, if

the principal class of its shares is listed or admitted to dealings on a
recognised stock exchange specified in clauses (i) or (ii) of
sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 7 of this Article and is regularly traded
on one or more recognised stock exchanges, or

(ii) shares representing at least 50 per cent. of the aggregate voting
power and value of the company are owned directly or indirectly by five
or fewer companies entitled to benefits under clause (i) of this
sub-paragraph, provided that, in the case of indirect ownership, each
intermediate owner is a resident of either Contracting State;

(d) a person other than an individual or a company, if:

the principal class of units in that person is listed or admitted to
dealings on a recognised stock exchange specified in clauses (i) or (ii)
of sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 7 of this Article and is regularly
traded on one or more recognised stock exchanges, or

(ii) the direct or indirect owners of at least 50 per cent. of the
beneficial interests in that person are qualified persons by reason of
clause (i) of sub-paragraph (c) or clause (i) of this sub-paragraph;

(e) a person described in sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of paragraph 3
of Article 4 (Residence) of this Convention, provided that, in the case
of a person described in sub-paragraph (a) or (b) of that paragraph,
more than 50 per cent. of the person's beneficiaries, members or
participants are individuals who are residents of either Contracting
State;

(f) a person other than an individual, if:

on at least half the days of the taxable or chargeable period persons
that are qualified persons by reason of sub-paragraphs (a), (b), clause
(i) of sub-paragraph (c), clause (i) of sub-paragraph (d), or
sub-paragraph (e) of this paragraph own, directly or indirectly, shares
or other beneficial interests representing at least 50 per cent. of the
aggregate voting power and value of the person, and

(ii) less than 50 per cent. of the person's gross income for that
taxable or chargeable period is paid or accrued, directly or indirectly,
to persons who are not residents of either Contracting State in the form
of payments that are deductible for the purposes of the taxes covered by
this Convention in the State of which the person is a resident (but not
including arm's length payments in the ordinary course of business for
services or tangible property and payments in respect of financial
obligations to a bank, provided that where such a bank is not a resident
of a Contracting State such payment is attributable to a permanent
establishment of that bank located in one of the Contracting States); or

(g) a trust or trustee of a trust in their capacity as such if at least
50 per cent. of the beneficial interest in the trust is held by persons
who are either:

qualified persons by reason of sub-paragraphs (a), (b), clause (i) of
sub-paragraph (c), clause (i) of sub-paragraph (d), or sub-paragraph (e)
of this paragraph; or

(ii) equivalent beneficiaries, provided that less than 50 per cent. of
the gross income arising to such trust or trustee in their capacity as
such for the taxable or chargeable period is paid or accrued, directly
or indirectly, to persons who are not residents of either Contracting
State in the form of payments that are deductible for the purposes of
the taxes covered by this Convention in the Contracting State of which
that trust or trustee is a resident (but not including arm's length
payments in the ordinary course of business for services or tangible
property and payments in respect of financial obligations to a bank,
provided that where such a bank is not a resident of a Contracting State
such payment is attributable to a permanent establishment of that bank
located in one of the Contracting States).

(3) Notwithstanding that a company that is a resident of a Contracting
State may not be a qualified person, it shall be entitled to the
benefits of this Convention otherwise accorded to residents of a
Contracting State with respect to an item of income, profit or gain if
it satisfies any other specified conditions for the obtaining of such
benefits and:

shares representing at least 95 per cent. of the aggregate voting power
and value of the company are owned, directly or indirectly, by seven or
fewer persons who are equivalent beneficiaries; and

(b) less than 50 per cent. of the company's gross income for the taxable
or chargeable period in which the item of income, profit or gain arises
is paid or accrued, directly or indirectly, to persons who are not
equivalent beneficiaries, in the form of payments that are deductible
for the purposes of the taxes covered by this Convention in the State of
which the company is a resident (but not including arm's length payments
in the ordinary course of business for services or tangible property and
payments in respect of financial obligations to a bank, provided that
where such a bank is not a resident of a Contracting State such payment
is attributable to a permanent establishment of that bank located in one
of the Contracting States).

(4)

Notwithstanding that a resident of a Contracting State may not be a
qualified person, it shall be entitled to the benefits of this
Convention with respect to an item of income, profit or gain derived
from the other Contracting State, if the resident is engaged in the
active conduct of a trade or business in the first-mentioned State
(other than the business of making or managing investments for the
resident's own account, unless these activities are banking, insurance
or securities activities carried on by a bank, insurance company or
registered securities dealer), the income, profit or gain derived from
the other Contracting State is derived in connection with, or is
incidental to, that trade or business and that resident satisfies any
other specified conditions for the obtaining of such benefits.

(b) If a resident of a Contracting State or any of its associated
enterprises carries on a trade or business activity in the other
Contracting State which gives rise to an item of income, profit or gain,
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph shall apply to such item only if the
trade or business activity in the first-mentioned State is substantial
in relation to the trade or business activity in the other State.
Whether a trade or business activity is substantial for the purposes of
this paragraph shall be determined on the basis of all the facts and
circumstances.

(c) In determining whether a person is engaged in the active conduct of
a trade or business in a Contracting State under sub-paragraph (a) of
this paragraph, activities conducted by a partnership in which that
person is a partner and activities conducted by persons connected to
such person shall be deemed to be conducted by such person. A person
shall be connected to another if one possesses at least 50 per cent. of
the beneficial interest in the other (or, in the case of a company,
shares representing at least 50 per cent. of the aggregate voting power
and value of the company or of the beneficial equity interest in the
company) or another person possesses, directly or indirectly, at least
50 per cent. of the beneficial interest (or, in the case of a company,
shares representing at least 50 per cent. of the aggregate voting power
and value of the company or of the beneficial equity interest in the
company) in each person. In any case, a person shall be considered to be
connected to another if, on the basis of all the facts and
circumstances, one has control of the other or both are under the
control of the same person or persons.

(5) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, if a
company that is a resident of a Contracting State, or a company that
controls such a company, has outstanding a class of shares:

which is subject to terms or other arrangements which entitle its
holders to a portion of the income, profit or gain of the company
derived from the other Contracting State that is larger than the portion
such holders would receive in the absence of such terms or arrangements;
and

(b) 50 per cent. or more of the voting power and value of which is owned
by persons who are not equivalent beneficiaries, the benefits of this
Convention shall apply only to that proportion of the income which those
holders would have received in the absence of those terms or
arrangements.

(6) A resident of a Contracting State that is neither a qualified person
nor entitled to benefits with respect to an item of income, profit or
gain under paragraph 3 or 4 of this Article shall, nevertheless, be
granted benefits of this Convention with respect to such item if the
competent authority of the other Contracting State determines that the
establishment, acquisition or maintenance of such resident and the
conduct of its operations did not have as one of its principal purposes
the obtaining of benefits under this Convention.

The competent authority of the other Contracting State shall consult
with the competent authority of the first-mentioned State before
refusing to grant benefits of this Convention under this paragraph.

(7) For the purposes of this Article the following rules and definitions
shall apply:

the term "recognised stock exchange" means:

the NASDAQ System and any stock exchange registered with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission as a national securities exchange
under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934;

(ii) the London Stock Exchange and any other recognised investment
exchange within the meaning of the Financial Services Act 1986 or, as
the case may be, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000;

(iii) the Irish Stock Exchange, the Swiss Stock Exchange and the stock
exchanges of Amsterdam, Brussels, Frankfurt, Hamburg, Johannesburg,
Madrid, Milan, Paris, Stockholm, Sydney, Tokyo, Toronto and Vienna; and

(iv) any other stock exchange which the competent authorities agree to
recognise for the purposes of this Article;

(b)

the term "principal class of shares" means the ordinary or common shares
of the company, provided that such class of shares represents the
majority of the voting power and value of the company. If no single
class of ordinary or common shares represents the majority of the
aggregate voting power and value of the company, the "principal class of
shares" is that class or those classes that in the aggregate represent a
majority of the aggregate voting power and value of the company;

(ii) the term "shares" shall include depository receipts thereof or
trust certificates thereof;

(c) the term "units" as used in sub-paragraph (d) of paragraph 2 of this
Article includes shares and any other instrument, not being a
debt-claim, granting an entitlement to share in the assets or income of,
or receive a distribution from, the person. The term "principal class of
units" means the class of units which represents the majority of the
value of the person. If no single class of units represents the majority
of the value of the person, the "principal class of units" is those
classes that in the aggregate represent the majority of the value of the
person;

(d) an equivalent beneficiary is a resident of a Member State of the
European Community or of a European Economic Area state or of a party to
the North American Free Trade Agreement but only if that resident:

would be entitled to all the benefits of a comprehensive convention for
the avoidance of double taxation between any Member State of the
European Community or a European Economic Area state or any party to the
North American Free Trade Agreement and the Contracting State from which
the benefits of this Convention are claimed, provided that if such
convention does not contain a comprehensive limitation on benefits
article, the person would be a qualified person under paragraph 2 of
this Article (or for the purposes of sub-paragraph (g) of paragraph 2,
under the provisions specified in clause (i) of that sub-paragraph) if
such person were a resident of one of the Contracting States under
Article 4 (Residence) of this Convention; and

(b) with respect to income referred to in Article 10 (Dividends), 11
(Interest) or 12 (Royalties) of this Convention, would be entitled under
such convention to a rate of tax with respect to the particular class of
income for which benefits are being claimed under this Convention that
is at least as low as the rate applicable under this Convention; or

(ii) is a company resident in a Member State of the European Community
which is entitled under the provisions of any Directive of the European
Community to receive the particular class of income for which benefits
are being claimed under this Convention free of withholding tax.

(e) For the purposes of paragraph 2 of this Article, the shares in a
class of shares or the units in a class of units are considered to be
regularly traded on one or more recognised stock exchanges in a
chargeable or taxable period if the aggregate number of shares or units
of that class traded on such stock exchange or exchanges during the
twelve months ending on the day before the beginning of that taxable or
chargeable period is at least six per cent. of the average number of
shares or units outstanding in that class during that twelve-month
period.

(f) A body corporate or unincorporated association shall be considered
to be an insurance company if its gross income consists primarily of
insurance or reinsurance premiums and investment income attributable to
such premiums.

ARTICLE 24 Relief From Double Taxation

In accordance with the provisions and subject to the limitations of the
law of the United States (as it may be amended from time to time without
changing the general principle hereof), the United States shall allow to
a resident or citizen of the United States as a credit against the
United States tax on income

the income tax paid or accrued to the United Kingdom by or on behalf of
such citizen or resident; and

(b) in the case of a United States company owning at least 10 per cent.
of the voting stock of a company that is a resident of the United
Kingdom and from which the United States company receives dividends, the
income tax paid or accrued to the United Kingdom by or on behalf of the
payer with respect to the profits out of which the dividends are paid.

For the purposes of this paragraph, the taxes referred to in
sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 3 and in paragraph 4 of Article 2 (Taxes
Covered) of this Convention shall be considered income taxes.

(2) For the purposes of applying paragraph 1 of this Article,

subject to sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, an item of gross income,
as determined under the laws of the United States, derived by a resident
of the United States that, under this Convention, may be taxed in the
United Kingdom shall be deemed to be income from sources in the United
Kingdom;

(b) however, gains derived by an individual while that individual was a
resident of the United States, that are taxed in the United States in
accordance with this Convention, and that may also be taxed in the
United Kingdom by reason only of paragraph 6 of Article 13 (Gains) of
this Convention, shall be deemed to be gains from sources in the United
States.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, the
amount of United Kingdom petroleum revenue tax allowable as a credit
against United States tax shall be limited to the amount attributable to
the United Kingdom source taxable income in the following way, namely:

the amount of United Kingdom petroleum revenue tax on income from the
extraction of minerals from oil or gas wells in the United Kingdom to be
allowed as a credit for a taxable year shall not exceed the amount, if
any, by which the product of the maximum statutory United States tax
rate applicable to a corporation for such taxable year and the amount of
such income exceeds the amount of other United Kingdom tax on such
income;

(b) the amount of United Kingdom petroleum revenue tax on income from
the extraction of minerals from oil or gas wells in the United Kingdom
that is not allowable as a credit under sub-paragraph (a) of this
paragraph, shall be deemed to be income taxes paid or accrued in the two
preceding or five succeeding taxable years, to the extent not deemed
paid or accrued in a prior taxable year, and shall be allowable as a
credit in the year in which it is deemed paid or accrued subject to the
limitation in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph;

(c) the provisions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall
apply separately, mutatis mutandis, to the amount of United Kingdom
petroleum revenue tax on income from initial transportation, initial
treatment and initial storage of minerals from oil or gas wells in the
United Kingdom.

(4) Subject to the provisions of the law of the United Kingdom regarding
the allowance as a credit against United Kingdom tax of tax payable in a
territory outside the United Kingdom (which shall not affect the general
principle hereof):

United States tax payable under the laws of the United States and in
accordance with this Convention, whether directly or by deduction, on
profits, income or chargeable gains from sources within the United
States (excluding, in the case of a dividend, United States tax in
respect of the profits out of which the dividend is paid) shall be
allowed as a credit against any United Kingdom tax computed by reference
to the same profits, income or chargeable gains by reference to which
the United States tax is computed;

(b) in the case of a dividend paid by a company which is a resident of
the United States to a company which is a resident of the United Kingdom
and which controls directly or indirectly at least 10 per cent. of the
voting power in the company paying the dividend, the credit shall take
into account (in addition to any United States tax for which credit may
be allowed under the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph)
the United States tax payable by the company in respect of the profits
out of which such dividend is paid;

(c) United States tax shall not be taken into account under
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph for the purpose of allowing credit
against United Kingdom tax in the case of a dividend paid by a company
which is a resident of the United States if and to the extent that

the United Kingdom treats the dividend as beneficially owned by a
resident of the United Kingdom; and

(ii) the United States treats the dividend as beneficially owned by a
resident of the United States; and

(iii) the United States has allowed a deduction to a resident of the
United States in respect of an amount determined by reference to that
dividend;

(d) the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 1 (General Scope) of this
Convention shall not apply to sub-paragraph (c) of this paragraph.

For the purposes of this paragraph, the income taxes referred to in
clause (i) of sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 3 and in paragraph 4 of
Article 2 (Taxes Covered) of this Convention shall be considered United
States tax.

(5) For the purposes of paragraph 4 of this Article, profits, income and
chargeable gains owned by a resident of the United Kingdom which may be
taxed in the United States in accordance with this Convention shall be
deemed to arise from sources within the United States.

(6) Where the United States taxes, in accordance with paragraph 4 of
Article 1 (General Scope) of this Convention, a United States citizen,
or a former United States citizen or long-term resident, who is a
resident of the United Kingdom:

the United Kingdom shall not be bound to give credit to such resident
for United States tax on profits, income or chargeable gains from
sources outside the United States as determined under the laws of the
United Kingdom;

(b) in the case of profits, income or chargeable gains from sources
within the United States, the United Kingdom shall take into account for
the purposes of computing the credit to be allowed under paragraph 4 of
this Article only the amount of tax, if any, that the United States may
impose under the provisions of this Convention on a resident of the
United Kingdom who is not a United States citizen;

(c) for the purposes of computing United States tax on the profits,
income or chargeable gains referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this
paragraph, the United States shall allow as a credit against United
States tax the income tax and capital gains tax paid to the United
Kingdom after the credit referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this
paragraph; the credit so allowed shall not reduce the portion of the
United States tax that is creditable against the United Kingdom tax in
accordance with sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph; and

(d) for the exclusive purpose of relieving double taxation in the United
States under sub-paragraph (c) of this paragraph, profits, income and
chargeable gains referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph
shall be deemed to arise in the United Kingdom to the extent necessary
to avoid double taxation of such profits, income or chargeable gains
under sub-paragraph (c) of this paragraph.

ARTICLE 25 Non-Discrimination

Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other
Contracting State to any taxation or any requirement connected therewith
that is more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to
which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances,
particularly with respect to taxation on worldwide income, are or may be
subjected.

(2) The taxation on a permanent establishment that an enterprise of a
Contracting State has in the other Contracting State shall not be less
favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on
enterprises of that other State carrying on the same activities.

(3) Except where the provisions of the second sentence of paragraph 5 of
Article 7 (Business Profits), paragraph 1 of Article 9 (Associated
Enterprises), paragraph 9 of Article 10 (Dividends), paragraphs 4 and 7
of Article 11 (Interest), paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article 12 (Royalties),
or paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 22 (Other Income) of this Convention
apply, interest, royalties, and other disbursements paid by a resident
of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State
shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of the
first-mentioned resident, be deductible under the same conditions as if
they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State.

(4) Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly
or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by one or more
residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the
first-mentioned State to any taxation or any requirement connected
therewith that is more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned
State are or may be subjected.

(5) Nothing in this Article shall be construed as obliging either
Contracting State to grant to individuals not resident in that State any
of the personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for tax purposes
which are granted to individuals so resident or to its nationals.

(6) Nothing in this Article shall be construed as preventing either
Contracting State from imposing a tax as described in paragraph 7 of
Article 10 (Dividends) of this Convention.

(7) The provisions of this Article shall, notwithstanding the provisions
of Article 2 (Taxes Covered) of this Convention, also apply to taxes of
every kind and description imposed by each Contracting State or by its
political sub-divisions or local authorities.

ARTICLE 26 Mutual Agreement Procedure

Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the
Contracting States result or will result for him in taxation not in
accordance with the provisions of this Convention, he may, irrespective
of the remedies provided by the domestic law of those States, present
his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he
is a resident or national. The case must be presented within three years
from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in
accordance with the provisions of this Convention or, if later, within
six years from the end of the taxable year or chargeable period in
respect of which that taxation is imposed or proposed.

(2) The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to
it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive at a
satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the
competent authority of the other Contracting State, with a view to the
avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with this Convention.
Any agreement reached shall be implemented notwithstanding any time
limits or other procedural limitations in the domestic law of the
Contracting States, except such limitations as apply for the purposes of
giving effect to such an agreement.

(3) The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour
to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties or doubts arising as to
the interpretation or application of this Convention. In particular the
competent authorities of the Contracting States may agree:

to the same attribution of income, deductions, credits, or allowances of
an enterprise of a Contracting State to its permanent establishment
situated in the other Contracting State;

(b) to the same allocation of income, deductions, credits, or allowances
between persons;

(c) to the same characterization of particular items of income,
including the same characterization of income that is assimilated to
income from shares by the taxation law of one of the Contracting States
and that is treated as a different class of income in the other
Contracting State;

(d) to the same characterization of person;

(e) to the same application of source rules with respect to particular
items of income;

(f) to a common meaning of a term;

(g) that the conditions for the application of the second sentence of
paragraph 5 of Article 7 (Business Profits), paragraph 9 of Article 10
(Dividends), paragraph 7 of Article 11 (Interest), paragraph 5 of
Article 12 (Royalties), or paragraph 4 of Article 22 (Other Income) of
this Convention are met; and

(h) to the application of the provisions of domestic law regarding
penalties, fines, and interest in a manner consistent with the purposes
of this Convention.

They may also consult together for the elimination of double taxation in
cases not provided for in this Convention.

(4) The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate
with each other directly for the purpose of reaching an agreement in the
sense of the preceding paragraphs.

ARTICLE 27 Exchange of Information and Administrative Assistance

The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such
information as is necessary for carrying out the provisions of this
Convention or of the domestic laws of the Contracting States concerning
taxes covered by this Convention insofar as the taxation thereunder is
not contrary to this Convention, including for the purposes of
preventing fraud and facilitating the administration of statutory
provisions against legal avoidance. This includes information relating
to the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or prosecution in
respect of, or the determination of appeals in relation to, the taxes
covered by this Convention. The exchange of information is not
restricted by paragraph 1 of Article 1 (General Scope) of this
Convention. Any information received by a Contracting State shall be
treated as secret in the same manner as information obtained under the
domestic laws of that State but may be disclosed to and only to persons
or authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) involved in
the assessment, collection, or administration of, the enforcement or
prosecution in respect of, or the determination of appeals in relation
to, the taxes covered by this Convention or the oversight of the above.
Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such
purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings
or in judicial decisions.

(2) If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance
with this Article, the other Contracting State shall obtain that
information in the same manner and to the same extent as if the tax of
the first-mentioned State were the tax of that other State and were
being imposed by that other State, notwithstanding that the other State
may not, at that time, need such information for the purposes of its own
tax.

(3) In no case shall the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this
Article be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the
obligation:

to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and
administrative practice of that or of the other Contracting State;

(b) to supply information that is not obtainable under the laws or in
the normal course of the administration of that or of the other
Contracting State;

(c) to supply information that would disclose any trade, business,
industrial, commercial, or professional secret or trade process, or
information the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy.

(4) If specifically requested by the competent authority of a
Contracting State, the competent authority of the other Contracting
State shall provide information under this Article in the form of
authenticated copies of unedited original documents (including books,
papers, statements, records, accounts, and writings), to the same extent
such documents can be obtained under the laws and administrative
practices of that other State with respect to its own taxes.

(5) Each of the Contracting States shall endeavour to collect on behalf
of the other Contracting State such amounts as may be necessary to
ensure that relief granted by this Convention from taxation imposed by
that other State does not inure to the benefit of persons not entitled
thereto. This paragraph shall not impose upon either of the Contracting
States the obligation to carry out administrative measures that would be
contrary to its sovereignty, security, or public policy.

(6) The competent authority of a Contracting State intending to send
officials of that State to the other Contracting State to interview
individuals and examine books and records with the consent of the
persons subject to examination shall notify the competent authority of
the other Contracting State of that intention.

(7) The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall consult
with each other for the purpose of co-operating and advising in respect
of any action to be taken in implementing this Article.

ARTICLE 28 Diplomatic Agents and Consular Officers

Nothing in this Convention shall affect the fiscal privileges of
diplomatic agents or consular officers under the general rules of
international law or under the provisions of special agreements.

ARTICLE 29 Entry Into Force

This Convention shall be subject to ratification in accordance with the
applicable procedures of each Contracting State and instruments of
ratification shall be exchanged as soon as possible.

(2) This Convention shall enter into force upon the exchange of
instruments of ratification and its provisions shall have effect:

in the United States:

in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on
or after the first day of the second month next following the date on
which this Convention enters into force;

(ii) in respect of other taxes, for taxable periods beginning on or
after the first day of January next following the date on which this
Convention enters into force; and

(b) in the United Kingdom;

in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on
or after the first day of the second month next following the date on
which this Convention enters into force;

(ii) in respect of income tax not described in clause (i) of this
sub-paragraph and capital gains tax, for any year of assessment
beginning on or after the sixth day of April next following the date on
which this Convention enters into force;

(iii) in respect of corporation tax, for any financial year beginning on
or after the first day of April next following the date on which this
Convention enters into force;

(iv) in respect of petroleum revenue tax, for chargeable periods
beginning on or after the first day of January next following the date
on which this Convention enters into force.

(3) The Convention between the Government of the United States of
America and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the prevention
of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income and Capital Gains,
signed at London on December 31st, 1975, as modified by subsequent notes
and protocols ( "the prior Convention") shall cease to have effect in
relation to any tax with effect from the date on which this Convention
has effect in relation to that tax in accordance with paragraph 2 of
this Article. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, where any person
entitled to benefits under the prior Convention would have been entitled
to greater benefits thereunder than under this Convention, the prior
Convention shall, at the election of such person, continue to have
effect in its entirety with respect to that person for a twelve-month
period from the date on which the provisions of this Convention
otherwise would have effect under paragraph 2 of this Article. The prior
Convention shall terminate on the last date on which it has effect in
relation to any tax in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this
paragraph.

(4) Notwithstanding the entry into force of this Convention, an
individual who is entitled to the benefits of Article 20 (Teachers) of
the prior Convention at the time of the entry into force of this
Convention shall continue to be entitled to such benefits until such
time as the individual would have ceased to be entitled to such benefits
if the prior Convention had remained in force.

(5) Nothwithstanding the entry into force of this Convention, an
individual who is entitled to the benefits of Article 21 (Students and
Trainees) of the prior Convention at the time of entry into force of
this Convention shall continue to be entitled to such benefits as if the
prior Convention had remained in force.

ARTICLE 30 Termination

This Convention shall remain in force until terminated by a Contracting
State. Either Contracting State may terminate this Convention by giving
notice of termination to the other Contracting State through diplomatic
channels. In such event, this Convention shall cease to have effect:

in the United States:

in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited
after the date that is six months after the date on which notice of
termination was given; and

(ii) in respect of other taxes, for taxable periods beginning on or
after the date that is six months after the date on which notice of
termination was given.

(b) in the United Kingdom:

in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited
after the date that is six months after the date on which notice of
termination was given;

(ii) in respect of income tax not described in clause (i) of this
sub-paragraph and capital gains tax, for any year of assessment
beginning on or after the date that is six months after the date on
which notice of termination was given;

(iii) in respect of corporation tax, for any financial year beginning on
or after the date that is six months after the date on which notice of
termination was given; and

(iv) in respect of petroleum revenue tax, for chargeable periods
beginning on or after the date that is six months after the date on
which notice of termination was given.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto by
their respective Governments, have signed this Convention. DONE at
London in duplicate, this twenty-fourth day of July 2001.

For the Government of the United States of America: PAUL H. O'NEILL

For the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland: GORDON BROWN

EXCHANGE OF NOTES

I. London, July 24, 2001

EXCELLENCY: I have the honour to refer to the Convention between the
Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
and the Government of the United States of America for the Avoidance of
Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to
Taxes on Income and on Capital Gains which has been signed today and to
make on behalf of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland the following proposals:

With reference to paragraph 3 of Article 1 (General Scope):

it is understood that, at the time of the signing of the Convention, the
only agreements in force as between the two Contracting States that may
impose national treatment or most-favoured nation obligations are the
General Agreement on Trade in Services, the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade, A Convention to Regulate the Commerce between the Territories
of the United States and of His Britannic Majesty, signed in London on
July 3rd, 1815, and the Treaty of Amity, Commerce, and Navigation,
between His Britannic Majesty and the United States of America, signed
at London, on November 19th, 1794. If it is determined that there were,
at the date of the signing of the Convention, additional agreements in
force between the Contracting States that create such obligations, the
Contracting States will consider whether amendments to the Convention
are necessary to ensure the proper interaction of the Convention and
such other agreement with respect to tax measures.

With reference to paragraph 6 of Article 1 (General Scope):

it is understood that an individual shall be regarded as a former
long-term resident of a Contracting State only if that individual (not
being a citizen of that Contracting State) was a lawful permanent
resident of that Contracting State in at least eight of the fifteen
fiscal years ending with the fiscal year in which the individual ceased
to be a long-term resident of that Contracting State;

(2) it is further understood that, in the case of an individual who is a
former citizen of a Contracting State, the following factors shall be
considered favourably in determining whether or not one of the principal
purposes of that individual's loss of citizenship of that Contracting
State was the avoidance of tax,

at the time of the individual's ceasing to be a citizen of that
Contracting State or within a reasonable period thereafter, the
individual is or becomes a resident fully liable to income tax in the
other Contracting State, and

(b)

the individual was a citizen of both Contracting States at birth and has
remained a citizen of the other Contracting State;

(ii) at the time of the loss of such citizenship (or within a reasonable
period thereafter), the individual was or became a citizen of the other
Contracting State, and that other Contracting State was that
individual's country of birth, or the country of birth of that
individual's spouse or of either of that individual's parents;

(iii) in the 10 years preceding the loss of such citizenship the
individual was present in that Contracting State for no more than 30
days in any taxable year or year of assessment; or

(iv) the loss of citizenship occurred before the individual attained the
age of 181/2 years;

(3) it is further understood that, in the case of an individual who is a
former long-term resident of a Contracting State, the following factors
shall be considered favourably in determining whether or not one of the
principal purposes of that individual's ceasing to be a long-term
resident of that Contracting State was the avoidance of tax,

at the time of the individual's ceasing to be a long-term resident of
that Contracting State or within a reasonable period thereafter, the
individual is or becomes a resident fully liable to income tax in the
other Contracting State, and that other Contracting State is

the country in which the individual was born;

(ii) the country in which the individual's spouse was born; or

(iii) the country where either of the individual's parents was born;

(b) in the 10 years preceding the individual's ceasing to be a long-term
resident of that Contracting State, the individual was present in that
Contracting State for no more than 30 days in each taxable year or year
of assessment; or

(c) the individual ceases to be a long-term resident of that Contracting
State before reaching the age of 181/2 years; and

(4) it is understood that, for the purposes of sub-paragraph (a) of
paragraph (2) and sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph (3) above, an
individual is not to be regarded as fully liable to income tax in a
Contracting State if that individual is subject to tax in that State, in
respect of income arising in the other Contracting State, by reference
to the amount of such income which is remitted to or received in the
first-mentioned State and not by reference to the full amount thereof.

With reference to paragraph 8 of Article 1 (General Scope):

it is understood that where an item of income, profit or gain is derived
through a person which is a resident of a Contracting State the
provisions of the paragraph shall not prevent that Contracting State
from taxing the item as the income, profit or gain of that person.

It is further understood that, where, by virtue of the paragraph, an
item of income, profit or gain is considered by a Contracting State to
be derived by a person who is a resident of that Contracting State, and
the same item is considered by the other Contracting State to be derived
by that person or by a person who is a resident of that other
Contracting State, the paragraph shall not prevent either Contracting
State from taxing the item as the income, profit or gain of the person
considered by that State to have derived the item of income, profit or
gain.

It is further understood that, in applying the paragraph, the United
Kingdom shall, exceptionally, regard an item of income, profit or gain
arising to a person as falling within the paragraph where another person
is charged to United Kingdom tax in respect of that item of income,
profit or gain

under section 660A or 739, Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988; or

(b) under section 77 or 86, Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992.

It is further understood that, in applying the paragraph, a person shall
be regarded as fiscally transparent under the laws of the United Kingdom
in relation to an item of income, profit or gain where a charge is made
on another person on that item either:

by virtue of section 13, Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992; or

(b) because that other person has (or, under section 118, Finance Act
1993, is treated as having) an equitable right in possession in a trust.

With reference to Article 2 (Taxes Covered):

it is understood that, if a political sub-division or local authority of
the United States seeks to impose tax on the profits of any enterprise
of the United Kingdom from the operation of ships or aircraft in
international traffic, in circumstances where the Convention would
preclude the imposition of a Federal income tax on those profits, the
United States Government will use its best endeavours to persuade that
political sub-division or local authority to refrain from imposing tax.

With reference to sub-paragraph (o) of paragraph 1 of Article 3 (General
Definitions):

It is understood that pension schemes shall include the following and
any identical or substantially similar schemes which are established
pursuant to legislation introduced after the date of signature of the
Convention:

under the law of the United Kingdom, employment-related arrangements
(other than a social security scheme) approved as retirement benefit
schemes for the purposes of Chapter I of Part XIV of the Income and
Corporation Taxes Act 1988, and personal pension schemes approved under
Chapter IV of Part XIV of that Act; and

(b) under the law of the United States, qualified plans under section
401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, individual retirement plans
(including individual retirement plans that are part of a simplified
employee pension plan that satisfies section 408(k), individual
retirement accounts, individual retirement annuities, section 408(p)
accounts, and Roth IRAs under section 408A)[a], section 403(a) qualified
annuity plans, and section 403(b) plans.

With reference to Article 7 (Business Profits):

It is understood that the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines will apply,
by analogy, for the purposes of determining the profits attributable to
a permanent establishment. Accordingly, any of the methods described
thereinincluding profits methodsmay be used to determine the income of
a permanent establishment so long as those methods are applied in
accordance with the Guidelines. In particular, in determining the amount
of attributable profits, the permanent establishment shall be treated as
having the same amount of capital that it would need to support its
activities if it were a distinct and separate enterprise engaged in the
same or similar activities. With respect to financial institutions other
than insurance companies, a Contracting State may determine the amount
of capital to be attributed to a permanent establishment by allocating
the institution's total equity between its various offices on the basis
of the proportion of the financial institution's risk-weighted assets
attributable to each of them.

With reference to paragraph 2 of Article 8 (Shipping and Air Transport):

it is understood that income earned by an enterprise from the inland
transport of property or passengers within either Contracting State
falls within Article 8 if the transport is undertaken as part of the
international transport of property or passengers by the enterprise.
Thus, if an enterprise of a Contracting State contracts to carry
property from the other State to the first-mentioned State and, as part
of that contract, it transports the property by truck from its point of
origin to an airport in the other State (or it contracts with a trucking
company to carry the property to the airport) the income earned by the
enterprise from the overland leg of the journey would be taxable only in
the first-mentioned State. Similarly, it is understood that Article 8
also would apply to income from lighterage undertaken as part of the
international transport of goods.

With reference to Article 9 (Associated Enterprises), paragraph 4 of
Article 11 (Interest) and paragraph 4 of Article 12 (Royalties):

it is understood that, if the amount of interest or royalties paid
exceeds the amount that would have been paid in the absence of a special
relationship, a Contracting State generally will adjust the amount of
deductible interest or royalties paid under the authority of Article 9
and make such other adjustments as are appropriate. If such an
adjustment is made, the Contracting State making such adjustment will
not also impose its domestic rate of withholding tax with respect to
such excess amount.

With reference to paragraph 7 of Article 10 (Dividends):

it is understood that the general principle of the "dividend equivalent
amount", as used in United States law, is to approximate that portion of
the income mentioned in paragraph 7 of Article 10 that is comparable to
the amount that would be distributed as a dividend if such income were
earned by a subsidiary incorporated in the United States. For any year,
a foreign corporation's dividend equivalent amount is equal to the
after-tax earnings attributable to the foreign corporation's (i) income
attributable to a permanent establishment in the United States, (ii)
income from real property in the United States that is taxed on a net
basis under Article 6 (Income from Real Property), and (iii) gains from
a real property interest taxable by the United States under paragraph 1
of Article 13 (Gains), reduced by any increase in the foreign
corporation's net investment in U.S. assets or increased by any
reduction in the foreign corporation's net investment in U.S. assets.

With reference to Article 14 (Income from Employment):

it is understood that any benefits, income or gains enjoyed by employees
under share/stock option plans are regarded as "other similar
remuneration" for the purposes of Article 14.

It is further understood that where an employee:

has been granted a share/stock option in the course of an employment in
one of the Contracting States;

(b) has exercised that employment in both States during the period
between grant and exercise of the option;

(c) remains in that employment at the date of the exercise; and

(d) under the domestic law of the Contracting States, would be taxable
by both Contracting States in respect of the option gain, then, in order
to avoid double taxation, a Contracting State of which, at the time of
the exercise of the option, the employee is not a resident will tax only
that proportion of the option gain which relates to the period or
periods between the grant and the exercise of the option during which
the individual has exercised the employment in that Contracting State.

With the aim of ensuring that no unrelieved double taxation arises the
competent authorities of the Contracting States will endeavour to
resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties or doubts arising as to the
interpretation or application of Article 14 and Article 24 (Relief from
Double Taxation) in relation to employee share/stock option plans.

With reference to paragraph 1 of Article 17 (Pensions, Social Security,
Annuities, Alimony, and Child Support):

it is understood that a payment shall be treated as a pension or other
similar remuneration under paragraph 1 of Article 17 if it is a payment
under a pension scheme as defined in sub-paragraph (o) of paragraph 1 of
Article 3 (General Definitions) of the Convention.

With reference to sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 3 and sub-paragraph (d)
of paragraph 5 of Article 18 (Pension Schemes):

it is understood that the pension schemes listed with respect to a
Contracting State in this exchange of notes in connection with
sub-paragraph (o) of paragraph 1 of Article 3 (General Definitions)
shall generally correspond to the pension schemes listed in this
exchange of notes with respect to the other Contracting State.

With reference to paragraph 1 of Article 22 (Other Income):

it is understood that the purpose of the exclusion from the paragraph
for income paid out of trusts or the estates of deceased persons in the
course of administration is to allow a recipient of such income the
relief that would have been available to him under the provisions of the
Convention had he received the income direct instead of through the
trust or estate.

With reference to Article 23 (Limitation on Benefits):

it is understood that the term "gross income" means the total revenues
derived by a resident of a Contracting State from its principal
operations, less the direct costs of obtaining such revenues.

With reference to paragraph 4 of Article 23 (Limitation on Benefits):

it is understood that an item of income, profit or gain is to be
considered as derived "in connection" with an active trade or business
in a Contracting State if the activity generating the item in the other
Contracting State is a line of business which forms a part of, or is
complementary to, the trade or business conducted in the first-mentioned
State. The line of business in the first-mentioned State may be
"upstream" to that going on in the other State (e.g., providing inputs
to a manufacturing process that occurs in that other State),
"downstream" (e.g., selling the output of a manufacturer which is a
resident of the other State) or "parallel" (e.g., selling in one
Contracting State the same sorts of products that are being sold by the
trade or business carried on in the other Contracting State).

It is understood that an item of income, profit or gain derived from a
Contracting State would be considered "incidental" to the trade or
business carried on in the other Contracting State if the item is not
produced by a line of business which forms a part of, or is
complementary to, the trade or business conducted in that other
Contracting State by the recipient of the item, but the production of
such item facilitates the conduct of the trade or business in that other
Contracting State. An example of such "incidental" item of income,
profit or gain is interest income earned from the short-term investment
of working capital of a resident of a Contracting State in securities
issued by persons in the other Contracting State.

With reference to paragraph 6 of Article 23 (Limitation on Benefits):

it is understood that in applying paragraph 6 of Article 23, the
competent authorities will consider the obligations imposed upon the
United Kingdom by its membership of the European Community and by its
being a party to the European Economic Area Agreement, and on the United
States by its being a party to the North American Free Trade Agreement.
In particular, they will have regard to any legal requirements for the
facilitation of the free movement of capital and persons, the differing
internal tax systems, tax incentive regimes and existing tax treaty
policies among Member States of the European Community or European
Economic Area states, or, as the case may be, parties to the North
American Free Trade Agreement.

Paragraph 6 of Article 23 requires the competent authority of the State
from which benefits are claimed to consider whether the establishment,
acquisition or maintenance of a resident and the conduct of its
operations had as one of its principal purposes the obtaining of
benefits under the Convention. That competent authority may determine
under a given set of facts that a change in circumstances that would
cause a qualified person to cease to qualify for treaty benefits under
paragraph 2 of Article 23 need not result in a denial of benefits. Such
changes in circumstances may include:

a change in the state of residence of a major participator in a company;

(b) the sale of part of the ownership interests in a company to a
resident of another Member State of the European Community or another
European Economic Area state or, as the case may be, another party to
the North American Free Trade Agreement; or

(c) an expansion of a company's activities in other Member States of the
European Community or other European Economic Area States or, as the
case may be, other parties to the North American Free Trade Agreement,
all under ordinary business conditions.

If the competent authority is satisfied that these changed circumstances
are not attributable to tax avoidance motives, this will be a factor
weighing in favour of granting benefits in accordance with paragraph 6
of Article 23.

With reference to sub-paragraph (e) of paragraph 7 of Article 23
(Limitation on Benefits):

it is understood that, if a class of shares was not listed on a
recognised stock exchange in the twelve months referred to in the
sub-paragraph, that class of shares will be treated as regularly traded
only if that class meets the aggregate trading requirements of the
sub-paragraph for the taxable or chargeable period in which the income
arises.

With reference to Article 24 (Relief from Double Taxation):

it is understood that, under paragraph 4 or 8 of Article 1 (General
Scope), the provisions of the Convention may permit the Contracting
State of which a person is a resident (or, in the case of the United
States, a citizen), to tax an item of income, profit or gain derived
through another person (the entity) which is fiscally transparent under
the laws of either Contracting State, and may permit the other
Contracting State to tax

the same person;

(b) the entity; or

(c) a third person with respect to that item. Under such circumstances,
the tax paid or accrued by the entity shall be treated as if it were
paid or accrued by the first-mentioned person for the purposes of
determining the relief from double taxation to be allowed by the State
of which that first-mentioned person is a resident (or, in the case of
the United States, a citizen), except that, in the case of an item of
income from real property to which paragraph 1 of Article 6 (Income from
Real Property) of the Convention applies, or a gain from the alienation
of real property to which paragraph 1 of Article 13 (Gains) applies, the
tax paid or accrued by the person who is a resident of the Contracting
State in which the real property is situated shall be treated as if it
were paid or accrued by the person who is a resident of the other
Contracting State.

In the case where the same item of income, profit or gain derived
through a trust is treated by each Contracting State as derived by
different persons resident in either State, and

the person taxed by one State is the settlor or grantor of a trust; and

(b) the person taxed by the other State is a beneficiary of that trust,
the tax paid or accrued by the beneficiary shall be treated as if it
were paid or accrued by the settlor or grantor for the purposes of
determining the relief from double taxation to be allowed by the State
of which that settlor or grantor is a resident (or, in the case of the
United States, a citizen), except that, in the case of an item of income
from real property to which paragraph 1 of Article 6 (Income from Real
Property) of the Convention applies, or a gain from the alienation of
real property to which paragraph 1 of Article 13 (Gains) applies, the
tax paid or accrued by the person who is a resident of the Contracting
State in which the real property is situated shall be treated as if it
were paid or accrued by the person who is a resident of the other
Contracting State.

It is further understood that paragraphs 2 and 5 of Article 24 shall
apply to such an item of income, profit or gain to the extent necessary
to provide relief from double taxation.

With reference to paragraphs 1 and 4 of Article 24 (Relief from Double
Taxation):

it is understood that, if a resident of a Contracting State receives a
dividend that is described in sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 1 or
sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 4 of Article 24, such dividend will be
deemed to be income from sources in the other Contracting State, even if
it may be taxed only in the first-mentioned Contracting State because of
sub-paragraph a) of paragraph 3 of Article 10 (Dividends).

With reference to paragraph 2 of Article 26 (Mutual Agreement
Procedure):

it is understood that where the competent authorities are endeavouring
to resolve a case pursuant to the Article, neither Contracting State
shall seek to collect the tax which is in dispute until the mutual
agreement procedure has been completed. Any tax which is payable
following the completion of the mutual agreement procedure shall,
however, be subject to interest charges, and, if appropriate, surcharges
or penalties, as long as it remains unpaid.

With reference to paragraph 3 of Article 26 (Mutual Agreement
Procedure):

it is understood that any principle of general application established
by an agreement between the competent authorities shall be published by
both competent authorities.

With reference to Article 27 (Exchange of Information and Administrative
Assistance):

it is understood that the powers of each Contracting State's competent
authorities to obtain information include powers to obtain information
held by financial institutions, nominees, or persons acting in an agency
or fiduciary capacity (not including information that would reveal
confidential communications between a client and an attorney, solicitor
or other legal representative, where the client seeks legal advice), and
information relating to the ownership of legal persons, and that each
Contracting State's competent authorities are able to exchange such
information in accordance with the Article.

With reference to Article 29 (Entry into Force):

it is understood that the provisions of Article 26 (Mutual Agreement
Procedure) and Article 27 (Exchange of Information and Administrative
Assistance) of the Convention shall have effect from the date of entry
into force of the Convention, without regard to the taxable or
chargeable period to which the matter relates.

In General:

it is understood that the two Governments shall consult together at
regular intervals regarding the terms, operation and application of the
Convention to ensure that it continues to serve the purposes of avoiding
double taxation and preventing fiscal evasion and shall, where they
consider it appropriate, conclude Protocols to amend the Convention. The
first such consultation shall take place no later than December 31st in
the fifth year following the date on which the Convention enters into
force in accordance with the provisions of Article 29 (Entry into
Force). Further consultations shall take place thereafter at intervals
of no more than five years.

Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, either Government may at any
time request consultations with the other Government on matters relating
to the terms, operation and application of the Convention which it
considers require urgent resolution.

If the foregoing proposals are acceptable to the Government of the
United States of America, I have the honour to suggest that the present
note and Your Excellency's reply to that effect should be regarded as
constituting an agreement between the two Governments in this matter,
which shall enter into force at the same time as the Convention.

I avail myself of this opportunity to extend to Your Excellency the
assurance of my highest consideration.

R. D. WILKINSON

II. London, July 24, 2001

SIR: I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your note of today
which reads as follows:

[As in Note I.]

The foregoing proposals being acceptable to the Government of the United
States of America, I have the honour to confirm that your note and this
reply shall be regarded as constituting an agreement between the two
Governments in this matter which shall enter into force at the same time
as the Convention.

Please accept the renewed assurance of my highest consideration.

Sincerely,

W. S. FARISH

